--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.12.1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/implemented/

World PvP
-  Players will no longer lose the Silithus or Eastern Plaguelands PvP 
   buffs after dying in the zone.
-  Players will now port to the Crown Guard Tower graveyard if they die
   in Fungal Vale while their faction controls the tower.
-  Players will no longer be interrupted while sitting down in Eastern 
   Plaguelands when contested towers change ownership.
-  Players will no longer be interrupted while sitting down in Silithus
   when a side collects 200 Silithyst and wins the event.
-  In the Silithus World PVP event, the dust cloud graphic that appears
   on a flag carrier will now properly trail behind the character while
   running.
-  Players will no longer receive honor if a tower in Eastern 
   Plaguelands is captured while they are stealthed.
-  Lordaeron's Blessing buff from Eastern Plaguelands is no longer 
   dispellable.
-  Players on Windows machines will now hear the victory music when 
   their faction fully captures a tower in the Eastern Plaguelands.
   
Warlocks
-  Players that log out of the game and back while having a pet 
   summoned will now be properly credited a Soul Shard.
-  Warlock pet sounds have now been added in all languages.
   
Warriors
-  Canceling Bloodrage while in PvP or dueling will no longer remove
   you from combat.
   
Items
-  Most enchantments on items are no longer counted against the maximum
   limit of effects a player can have on them, so it should be much 
   harder for a player to exceed their max limit on effects and have 
   one be removed involuntarily.
-  Fixed a graphical error with the Dreadnaught Helmet.
-  Fixed an issue in which the "Blessing of the Claw"from the 6 piece
   Dreamwalker set was causing players to stand up after trying to eat 
   or drink.
-  Fixed an issue where multiple armor set bonuses were not applying 
   correctly when switching out pieces.
-  Fixed an issue where the four-piece Plagueheart set was not properly
   applying to corruption.
-  The Blade of Eternal Darkness will now only proc when damage is done.
-  Fixed a graphical error with the Dreadmist mask in which it would 
   float above the Tauren Females' head.
-  Fixed a graphical error in which enchantment glows were not updating
   if the same item with a different enchant or no enchant was equipped.
   
User Interface
-  UI windows will now be positioned correctly if the right action bar 
   is activated.
-  When going from Windowed mode to Full-Screen mode, player names will
   no longer be replaced with "..."
-  The Quest Tracker will now properly display purchased quest items.
-  The Battle Map in Outdoor PvP and in the Battlegrounds will no 
   longer get stuck when dragging with the cursor in windowed mode.
-  The Battle Map in Alterac Valley will no longer switch off whenever
   a graveyard,tower or mine changes ownership.

Bugs
-  Players will now be able to complete the quest,"Target: Hive'Ashi 
   Sandstalkers".
-  Fixed an issue where players could be afflicted by "Withering Touch"
   more than once at a time.
-  The Plaguewood teleporter will now teleport players to the correct 
   location within Naxxramas.
-  Fixed an issue where players were getting the message "Invalid" when
   trying to select flight paths.
-  Fixed an issue where if the disenchant window was forced closed, a 
   player would lose both their reagent and the item they were 
   disenchanting.
-  Fixed an issue where players could crash while fighting Anub'Rekhan.
-  Fixed an issue in which players trying to disenchant an item with a
   full inventory and then casting a spell afterward would lose the 
   reagent and the item.
-  Fixed an issue where weapon procs will now work with instant 
   abilities.
-  Pet buffs will now apply and remove properly.
-  The Priest talent Spirit Tap will no longer sometimes proc off of 
   totems.
   
Mac
-  Players will no longer hear any sound when they have "Enable all 
   Sound" turned off.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.12.0 (2006-08-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Drums of War

Cross-Realm Battlegrounds
-  For the first time in the history of World of Warcraft, you will be
   able to face off against players from other realms in the
   Battlegrounds. PvP Battlegrounds link Alterac Valley, Warsong Gulch,
   and Arathi Basin so that players from several realms will be
   combined into one huge matchmaking pool. Replenish your mana,
   sharpen your blades, and get ready for some brand-new challengers!

World PvP
-  The stage is set for intense, objective-based land battles as Horde
   and Alliance vie for control over important strategic positions and
   resources around Azeroth. Head out for Silithus and Eastern
   Plaguelands to engage the enemy on the field!

General
-  Threat Reduction Effects
   This system has been redesigned to eliminate inconsistency in how
   the effects work. Previously, some were additive (for example: 30%
   reduction + 20% reduction = 50% reduction) while others were
   multiplicative (30% reduction and 20% reduction made 44% reduction,
   from 0.7*0.8). They are now all multiplicative. This also prevents
   unpredictable behavior when the total reduction percentage was equal
   to or greater than 100%. Please note that in almost all cases, when
   stacking multiple threat reduction effects you will experience less
   threat reduction than previously.
-  Haste and Slow effects
   Previously Haste and Slow effects worked inconsistently, with spells
   working differently from weapons, and hastes and slows not acting as
   inverses of each other. We have revised the system so that all haste
   and slow effects work the same way, and haste and slow percentages
   of the same magnitude perfectly cancel each other out (30% haste and
   30% slow combine to no change). As a result, we had to change the
   tooltip numbers on all spell haste effects, and on all melee and
   range slow effects. The numbers in the tooltips are different, but
   the game functionality is unchanged (other than slight rounding
   errors). Those tooltips that changed will now display larger numbers
   than they used to display. Conceptually, haste values indicate how
   much more of that activity you can perform in a given time. 30%
   melee haste means 30% more swings in a given time. Slow values
   indicate how much longer an activity takes to complete. 30% slow
   means an action takes 30% longer to finish.
-  The deserter debuff will now continue to expire even while you are
   offline.
-  Honorable Kills now diminish at a rate 10% per kill rather than 25%
   per kill.
-  Temporary item buffs (e.g. poisons, sharpening stones and shaman 
   weapon buffs) will no longer persist through zoning or logging out
   due to technical issues.  This feature is anticipated to be 
   activated once more with the expansion.

Druids
-  Barkskin: The tooltip has been changed to 25% due to the haste effect
   change.
-  Cat Form: This form now has an innate threat reduction component.
-  Ferocious Bite: Book of Ferocious Bite (Rank 5) now drops off The
   Beast in Black Rock Spire. In addition, Ferocious Bite now increases
   in potency with greater attack power.
-  Furor: This talent now works correctly with Cat Form again.
-  Improved Shred: The discounted cost for Shred will now be displayed
   correctly even when you are not in Cat Form.
-  Rip: Lesser potency Rips will no longer overwrite greater potency
   ones.
-  Fixed a bug where the incorrect sound was being played by the Claw
   attack.

Hunters
-  Spirit Bond: This ability will now be correctly reapplied when you
   resurrect in a battleground and your pet is polymorphed or otherwise
   unable to act normally.
-  Improved Concussive Shot: The effect of this talent will now still
   be placed on the victim if the hunter is killed before their shot
   reaches the target.
-  Growl now correctly initiates combat when used by a pet in passive
   mode.
-  The Ferocity talent now correctly applies to non-physical hunter pet
   abilities such as Lightning Breath and Thunderstomp.
-  If a hunter has tamed one of the following creature types, they will
   no longer potentially change colors if resummoned:
   Son of Hakkar - Red
   Frenzied Bloodseeker Bat - Brown
   Deep Stinger - Red
   Dark Screecher - Gray
   Cave Creeper - Brown
   Bloodaxe Worg - Black
   Scarshield Worg -Brown

Mages
-  Arcane Missiles: It is no longer possible to cast this spell on an
   evading mob. In addition, the animation will now stop when the target
   is dead.
-  Arcane Power: It is no longer possible to gain the benefit of this
   spell and Power Infusion at the same time by careful timing.
-  Frost Armor Chilled effect: Due to the haste effect change, the
   tooltip has been changed to 25%.
-  Ice Armor Chilled effect: Due to the haste effect change, the
   tooltip has been changed to 25%.
-  Ignite: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the
   target.
-  Impact: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Frostbite: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Polymorph: This spell will now be removed when a player leaves a
   battleground. This prevents some bugs involving polymorph from
   occurring.
-  Evocation will no longer be usable while silenced.
-  Reduced the number of messages that appear in the combat log when
   using Combustion.
-  Winter's Chill: The effect of this talent will now still be placed
   on the victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the
   target.

Paladins
-  Divine Shield: Due to the haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 100%.

Priests
-  Mind Control: Due to the haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 25%.
-  Psychic Scream: This spell now uses the same resistance checks as
   the Warlock spell Fear.
-  Spirit of Redemption: Fixed an issue preventing Twisting Nether from
   retriggering when the Spirit of Redemption effect runs out.

Rogues
-  Due to significant talent changes, Rogues will have all talent
   points refunded and can be re-spent. Training costs for all talent
   spell replacements have been significantly reduced.
-  Vanish now removes effects that allow the caster to always remain
   aware of their target (currently Hunter's Mark and Mind Vision).
-  Pickpocket can now be used on targets that are in combat, as long as
   the rogue remains stealthed.
-  All manner of rogue reagents can be found in locked junkboxes
   (obtained from pickpocketing).
-  Fixed a bug where the Slice and Dice ability wasn't playing an
   animation.
-  Lethargy Root has been removed from poison vendors and is now a gray
   item.
-  Reduced the number of messages in the combat log when using the
   Vanish ability.
-  Fixed a bug that made Combo Points disappear from your target when
   using Vanish.
-  Eviscerate: Manual of Eviscerate (Rank 9) now drops off Blackhand
   Assassins in Black Rock Spire. In addition, Eviscerate now increases
   in potency with greater attack power.
-  Garrote: The damage from this ability has been increased. In
   addition, Garrote now increases in potency with greater attack power.
-  Relentless Strikes: This ability will no longer trigger when your
   finishing move does not hit your target.
-  Rupture: Rupture now increases in potency with greater attack power.
-  Sap: Enemy rogues will now always lose stealth when you Sap them.

Shaman
-  Reincarnation should now display the cooldown timer when used.
-  Chain Heal - After the initial target is healed, the healing effect
   will jump to the most damaged target (by absolute health) within
   range. In addition, if a raid member is the initial target it will
   look for valid raid targets to jump to rather than non-raid targets
   as a priority, making it consistent with group targeted Chain Heals.
-  Lightning Shield: Air Bubble pockets in underwater regions will no
   longer consume a charge from this spell.

Warlocks
-  Cripple (Doomguard): Due to haste effect change, the tooltip has
   been changed to 45%.
-  Curse of Tongues: This spell will no longer debuff the target if 
   they are immune to the spellcast slowing effect
-  Enslave Demon: Due to haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 40%.
-  Health Funnel: This spell will now work correctly on low-level
   enslaved demons.
-  Howl of Terror: This spell now uses the same resistance checks as
   the Warlock spell Fear.
-  Siphon Life will now properly gain a benefit from Shadow Mastery.
-  A soul shard will be refunded to the caster any time a summoned pet
   despawns rather than dies.
-  Aftermath: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Improved Shadowbolt: The effect of this talent will now still be
   placed on the victim if the caster is killed before their spell
   reaches the target.
-  Life Tap: This spell now benefits from effects which increase your
   spell damage.  At rank 3 and above, the base amount of health lost
   and mana gained will increase by 80% of your bonus spell damage
   effects.  Talents and items can further modify those values.  Rank
   1 and 2 receive reduced effect.

Warriors
-  Bloodthirst: This ability will now correctly benefit from attack
   power bonuses versus specific creature types.
-  Flurry: The text on the tooltip has been corrected to indicate it
   triggers on all types of attacks.
-  Shield Slam: This ability will sometimes no longer remove more than
   one beneficial effect from the target.
-  Thunderclap: This ability was left at 10% despite the haste effect
   changes. This means its potency has been reduced slightly.

Items
-  +30 Spell Damage Enchantment: Fixed a bug with this enchantment
   which was preventing it from benefiting healing spells.
-  Blade of Eternal Darkness: The triggered effect from this weapon
   will no longer occur when the spell being cast has its effect broken
   by causing damage.
-  Blazefury Medallion: The triggered effect from this item will no
   longer break Gouge.
-  Bonescythe Armor: The Eviscerate bonus will no longer trigger when
   your Eviscerate does not hit your target.
-  Darkmoon Card- Twisting Nether: The dialog for this resurrection
   will now always reappear after the Spirit of Redemption effect has
   completed.
-  Earthfury Set: The mana refund effect can now only occur once per
   Healing Wave spell cast.
-  Earthshatter Set: The Lightning Shield bonus will now be removed if
   you lose the set bonus.
-  Eye of the Dead: Holy Shock now interacts properly with this item.
-  Ranged Elemental Damage: Our ranged combat system does not allow a
   ranged weapon to do a mix of Elemental (Fire, Frost, Arcane, etc.)
   and Physical damage. Many ranged weapons existed which were listed
   as doing Elemental damage and did not function properly (the damage
   was dealt, but was treated as Physical). All of those weapons have
   been changed to deliver the Elemental damage as a chance on hit
   effect. Hurricane was previously changed this way in 1.11. The
   following ranged weapons are also fixed in 1.12: Bow of Searing
   Arrows, Dwarven Hand Cannon, Heartseeking Crossbow, Dark Iron Rifle,
   Galgann's Fireblaster, Quillshooter, Shell Launcher Shotgun,
   Venomstrike, and Verdant Keeper's Aim.
-  Talisman of Ascendance: This item will no longer trigger from
   physical damage effects. In addition, if either of the buffs from
   the item are canceled, they will both be canceled.
-  Talisman of Ascendance: Holy Shock heals will now trigger the effect
   from this trinket. 
-  Zandalarian Hero Charm: Item tooltip corrected to match the effect
   tooltip.
-  The Items that summon mounts have been changed in their
   color/quality. Items that summon normal mounts are now blue
   (superior)items and items that summon swift mounts are now purple
   (epic) items.
-  Fixed a bug that allowed you to use items which restored health or
   mana while you were already full health or mana.
-  Fixed a bug with the Jom Gabbar trinket which was causing it to
   trigger a category cooldown for a duration longer than intended.
-  Wrath of Cenarius: This item will now trigger from Arcane Missiles.
-  Clarified the tooltips for the Stormshroud armor and Kalimdor's
   Revenge to explain that they deal Nature damage.
-  Fixed a bug that caused the Blooddrenched Mask to hide a character's
   hair.
-  Warbear leather now stacks to 20.
-  Thunderfury, Blessed Blade of the Windseeker may now be equipped in
   either hand.
-  Argent Shoulders no longer require a righteous orb to make.
-  The cooldown timer on transforming Anathema and Benediction may no
   longer be circumvented by zoning or logging out.

Professions
-  Engineering: The damage from sapper charges can now be resisted. The
   overall DPS of the charges should not be significantly altered from
   what it currently is.
-  Engineering: Explosive sheep do fire damage instead of physical
   damage.
-  Goblin Land Mines and Compact Harvest Reapers will no longer lock
   out using other engineering devices until the land mine/reaper dies.
   Harvest Reaper was given a 10 min self cooldown to prevent too many
   reapers from being summoned at once.

Raids and Dungeons
-  Uldaman
   Reduced the number of Shadowforge Ambushers that attack after
   looting the quest chest.
   Shadowforge Ambushers are no longer elite.
   The respawn of the Stone Stewards has been changed to 2 hours
   (from 30 minutes).
-  Zul'Farrak
   The respawn of the 2 Troll/1 Basilisk patrollers should now be 2
   hours.
   Reduced the damage dealt by the Sul'lithuz Abomination and
   Sul'lithuz Sandcrawler.
   Zul'Farrak Dead Heroes are no longer elites.
   Theka the Martyr will now only remain immune to physical damage for
   30 seconds before reverting to normal.
   Antu'sul's Sul'lithuz Broodlings now only hatch 4 at a time and are
   significantly weaker.
   Witch Doctor Zum'rah will no longer call as many Zul'Farrak Zombies
   to his aid when aggroed.
   Weegli Blastfuse now has slightly more hit points.
   Antu'sul's Warden no longer attempts to knock adventurers into
   Antu'sul's lair.
   Sandfury Cretins who engage the party during the pyramid event are
   no longer able to cast shadow bolt.
-  Maraudon
   Noxxious Scions will no longer spawn when you cleanse Celebrian
   Vines.
-  Ahn'Qiraj
   Lieutenant General Andronov's Aura of Command should no longer 
   generate threat. This will hopefully prevent him from pulling aggro
   on the entire wave, leading to his untimely death.
   Hive'Zara Hatchlings can now swim.
   Egg Explosion will no longer burn charges from spells such as 
   Lightning Shield.
   It should no longer be possible for Emperor Vek'lor and Vek'nilash
   to Unbalancing Strike or Arcane Burst immediately after a teleport.
   
User Interface
-  V key functionality has been improved in several ways.
   V key now shows summoned monsters (such as the gargoyles in
   Stratholme.)
   V key now shows both monsters and player enemies.
   V now shows enemies only (no longer shows friendly targets.)
   Shift-V now shows friendly targets only, not enemies (with a new
   bindable hotkey.)
   Control-V shows both friendly targets and enemy targets (with a new
   bindable hotkey.)
-  New floating combat text has been added to the game with a number of
   options. You can see when you take damage, when you are healed and
   how much, when you acquire and lose auras and much more. You can
   turn on the new options in the newly revised options screen.
-  There is now an option to turn on the display of your own name above
   your head. You can find the option in the interface options screen.
-  The Need Before Greed and Group Loot countdown timers will now have a
   3 minute countdown when there is a bind on acquire item on the
   corpse. This should allow a bit more time in making a decision to
   roll for an item.
-  Automatic Quest Tracking has been added to the game and is turned on
   by default. Any time you advance a quest by advancing one of the
   requirements, the quest information will appear on your screen for
   5 minutes before fading. You can turn this option off from the
   options screen.
-  The options screen has be redone and expanded due to space required
   for additional options. Also the location of various options has
   been changed in the options screen. They should make more sense now,
   though they will not be in quite the place you remember them being.
-  There is now a confirmation dialogue when you attempt to disband
   your guild.
-  When you destroy a superior quality (blue) or better item, you will
   get a dialogue that has you confirm deletion of that item.
-  Raid Pullout frames are now created on demand and will not take up
   any memory if you are not using them.
-  The player inspect range has been increased to 10 yards.
-  New API Functions
   Add-ons can send hidden chat messages to players in the party, raid
   or guild, using SendAddonMessage("prefix", "message", "PARTY"|"RAID"
   |"GUILD"|"BATTLEGROUND"). When players receive these messages, a new
   event "CHAT_MSG_ADDON" is sent, with arg1-arg3 being the parameters
   to SendAddonMessage(), and arg4 being the name of the player that
   sent it. The combined length of "prefix" and "message" must be less
   than or equal to 254 bytes.
   Added UnitPlayerOrPetInParty() and UnitPlayerOrPetInRaid().

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed a bug that caused some non-combat pets to be referred to as
   Minions instead of Pets. Mini Diablo however has escaped this fate
   and will continue to be referred to as a Minion.
-  Fixed a bug that was causing Ice Block to trigger a 5 minute
   cooldown on the Gnomish Cloaking Device.
-  Summon Dreadsteed no longer briefly puts you into combat.
-  Chain-targeted abilities cast by creatures no longer hit stealthed
   or invisible players.
-  Will of the Forsaken is no longer gray on the action bar while you
   are charmed.
-  Fixed a bug where large amounts of damage could go negative.
-  Non-combat pets are no longer affected by environmental damage.
-  The dressing room window will remain open and functional while
   zoning.
-  Fixed a bug allowing linked combat groups to be split when pathing
   fails.
-  Soul Link will persist across instance boundaries.
-  Item bonuses, buffs, and enchants will no longer be lost when 
   swapping an equipped item with another equipped item.
-  Stats will no longer fluctuate when putting points into stat 
   improving talents.
-  Devouring Plague will continue to heal the caster after the target
   is Mind Controlled.
-  Using /assist on a Mind Controlled target works properly now.
-  Recasting Feed Pet while using Feed Pet will reset the duration 
   of the cast.
-  Activating passive pet abilities while targeting an opposite faction
   player will no longer aggro neutral town guards.
-  If a Hunter is unflagged for PvP, an enemy faction rogue won't be 
   able to disarm his trap.
-  Fixed a bug causing the floating combat text from a killing blow 
   to be delayed until another unit is attacked.
-  Text with a scroll bar should no longer get clipped while in 
   windowed mode. 
-  Heals from spells such as Frenzied Regeneration will no longer close
   the loot window. 
-  Casting a spell while a loot window containing a disenchantment is 
   open will autoloot the item.
-  Pet spells can now be toggled in the pet spell book.
-  Grand Widow Faerlina's Rain of Fire no longer damages players 
   outside the area of effect.
-  Players can no longer drop from combat by repeatedly placing their
   pet into passive mode. 

World Environment
-  Cities
   Neutral guards are now able to see through the rogue Vanish ability.
-  Silithus
   Tortured Druids and Sentinels will now call only one Hive'Ashi drone
   on death.
   
Mac 
-  Added support for controlling iTunes from within World of Warcraft. 
   You can bind a set of keys for play/pause, next track, back track 
   and volume up and down.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.2 (2006-07-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Fixed an issue where players were still being disconnected in 1.11.0 
  when trying to log back in within 20 seconds of a client crash.
- Fixed an issue where it was possible to place special bags inside one
  another.
- Applied a fix where players reported that they are sometimes unable 
  to resurrect at their corpse.
- Fixed a graphical error where when viewing a character from a second 
  computer, a player who had his weapons sheathed did not appear to 
  have any weapons on his side or back.
- Fixed an issue where a player received a fatigue bar after a 
  disconnection occurred during a flight path over deep water.
- The Looking For Group channel is now defaulted off.  Players will 
  need to join the channel to access it. (/join LFG)
- Fixed an issue where temporary weapon enhancements such as poisons 
  would not persist after zoning or logging.
  
Druids
- The tool tip for the talent Omen of Clarity now reflects its new 
  duration of 10 minutes.
- Fixed an issue where players with the Heart of the Wild talent were
  losing health each time they shifted to Bear Form or Dire Bear Form.
- Fixed an issue where players with the Furor talent were not staying 
  in combat mode when shifting to bear form and were losing the extra 
  rage generated.

Hunters
- Players are no longer able to animate emotes while using Feign Death.

Paladins
- Seal of Righteousness will now benefit properly from wizard oil and 
  other effects which give bonus damage against specific creature types.
- Fixed a bug where sometimes casting a spell immediately after a swing
  would prevent Seal of Command from triggering.

Priests
- Fixed an error where Priests in Spirit of Redemption form did not 
  benefit from plus to healing items.
- Touch of Weakness will now work again when you have Power Word:Shield
  active on yourself.

Warriors
- Fixed an issue where the Improved Charge talent was incorrectly 
 increasing the amount of rage generated by Charge.

Items
- Fixed an issue where the Undead female's ears clipped through the 
  item "Polar Helmet."
- Fixed several graphical anomalies with a female Troll wearing 
  Dreadnaught armor.
- Fixed an issue where the trinket "Spectral Essence"  was not working 
  inside of the castle in Caer Darrow. This was preventing players from
  seeing Magistrate Marduke and starting the quests he gives.

Professions
-Fixed an error that if you try to create a Soul Shard bag while you 
 have one equipped the materials used for the creation of the bag are 
 consumed and the bag is placed in the inventory queue.


Raids and Dungeons
- Fixed an error where Necro Knight Guardians in Naxxramas were 
  sometimes causing players to crash when they cast their Blink ability.
  
Battlegrounds
- Fixed an area within Warsong Gulch where a person could get stuck and
  was no longer targetable.
- Fixed an issue where sometimes a queued player can't enter a new 
  battleground.


User Interface
- Using /chatwho for the Looking for Group channel should no longer 
  disconnect players from the server.
- Fixed an issue where the Guild Recruitment channel option could not 
  be enabled.
- Fixed an issue where the use of "Show Target of Target" feature on a
  friendly target overlapped the fifth buff, making it difficult to see.
- Fixed an error where player colored debuff icons were not displaying 
  their correct color.
- Fixed an error where negative effects were not causing party player 
  portraits to pulse the effect color as indicated in the 1.11.0 patch notes.
  
 Mac
 - Fixed a bug in 3D sound positioning that would occur in various 
   situations, such as leveling up or standing above a body of water.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.1 (2006-06-28)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Fixed a soft lock that some players were experiencing within the game
or while logging in.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.0 (2006-06-20)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shadow of the Necropolis
  Floating above the Plaguelands, the necropolis known as Naxxramas 
  serves as the seat of one of the Lich King's most powerful officers, 
  the dreaded lich Kel'Thuzad. Horrors of the past and new terrors yet 
  to be unleashed are gathering inside the necropolis as the Lich 
  King's servants prepare their assault. The Scourge marches again...
  Naxxramas is the new 40-man raid dungeon that will present even the 
  most experienced and powerful players with an epic challenge. 

General
- The cost to unlearn talents will now decay over time. This cost will 
  be reduced by a rate of 5 gold per month to a minimum of 10 gold.
- Logging back in after a disconnect from the server has been greatly 
  improved, and players should now rarely receive the message "A 
  character with that name already exists."
- Fear: The calculations to determine if Fear effects should break due 
  to receiving damage have been changed. The old calculation used the 
  base damage of the ability. The new calculation uses the final amount 
  of damage dealt, after all modifiers. In addition, the chance for a 
  damage over time spell to break Fear is now significantly lower. Note 
  that Fear continues to be roughly three times as likely to break on 
  player targets as on non-player targets. In addition, Intimidating 
  Shout now follows that player versus non-player distinction, while 
  previously it did not.
- Periodic Healing: Spells which do periodic healing will now have 
  their strength determined at the moment they are cast. Changing the 
  amount of bonus healing you have during the duration of the periodic 
  spell will have no impact on how much it heals for.
- Reflection: Effects which cause reflection will no longer reflect 
  triggered effects separately from their base effects (e.g. Impact, 
  Improved Shadow Bolt, Aftermath, etc.)
- Spell and Item Auras with Charges: These auras will now correctly 
  remember their number of charges when you enter or leave an instance, 
  change continents, or log out.
- All controlled units will now be titled based on the creature type. 
  All beasts will be referred to as Pets, for example (no matter how 
  they are controlled). Previously, there were several inconsistencies.
- Beneficial spells and abilities that target multiple units will no 
  longer consume resources (i.e. mana, rage etc...) if they fail to 
  affect anyone.
- Chain targeted spells and abilities (e.g. Multi-shot, Cleave, Chain 
  Lightning) will no longer land if target cannot be seen by the caster 
  due to stealth or invisibility.
- Character model transparency has been modified to fix an issue where 
  PC's would appear to have a large hole in their model (be on the 
  lookout!).
- Optimization code known as "M2Faster" is now enabled by default. 
  M2Faster can improve performance in crowded scenes when "Vertex 
  Animation Shaders" is turned on. This function can be turned off by 
  setting M2Faster to "0" in the config.wtf.
   Reduces the unique number of vertex shader permutations that we will 
   choose to use in rendering
   Sorts the drawing of items in the scene a little differently to 
   reduce the number of times we re-program the vertex shader hardware. 

PVP
- In an effort to keep their armies better outfitted the Horde and 
  Alliance have both taken it upon themselves to update their available 
  rewards.
   An updated set of armor rewards have been added to vendors for Honor 
   ranks 7, 8, and 10.
   The armor rewards for Honor ranks 12 and 13 have been increased in 
   level and stat point allocation.
   New rank 14 weapons have been added! In order to give casters the 
   same diversity of selection that melee currently enjoy we have added 
   new caster items that are available to be purchased by Grand 
   Marshals and High Warlords. 

Battlegrounds
- Alterac Valley
   Most of the NPC guard units have been removed.
   Players now drop more quest items.
   Creatures that remain in Alterac Valley have had their hit points 
   reduced.
   The buff that is periodically cast by each faction's Captain has 
   been changed to a flat 20% hit point buff.
   Upgrading troops through armor scrap turn-ins will also now result 
   in your team's General enabling a periodic buff to your melee and 
   spell damage. 
- This buff scales from 10% at the Seasoned unit level, 20% at the 
  Veteran unit level, and 30% at the Champion unit level.
- Warsong Gulch - Epic leggings have been added to the Warsong Outrider 
  and Silverwing Sentinel supply officers for all armor types. These 
  items require Exalted status with their respective reputations. 

Druids
- Innervate: This spell is now a base ability for all Druids, trainable 
  at level 40. Any Druid who formerly had the Innervate talent now has 
  the Swiftmend talent instead.
- Nature's Grace: You will no longer consume this effect when casting a 
  spell which was made instant by Nature's Swiftness.
- Swiftmend: This new talent has been added to the Druid Restoration 
  tree, replacing Innervate as the 31 point ultimate talent. It 
  consumes a Rejuvenation or Regrowth aura to produce an instant heal.
- Enrage: Tooltip edited to clarify functionality. 

Hunters
- Counterattack (Survival Talent) - All ranks of this talent will now 
  share the same cooldown.
- Scorpid Poison: Duration slightly lengthened.
- Changed the way hunter pet family armor bonuses and penalties are 
  applied to allow the exact value from the Natural Armor talent to be
  applied correctly. This may result in a very slight loss of armor to 
  some pets (less than a third of a percent).
- Improved Scorpid Sting: The aura from this Sting will now be removed 
  (as intended) when a different Sting aura is placed on the victim. 

Mages
- Due to significant talent changes, mages will have all talent points 
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent spell 
  replacements have been significantly reduced.
- New ability added - Winter's Chill.
- Arcane Explosion is now instant cast and will no longer remove the
  Presence of Mind effect when used.
- Evocation - Is now available to all mages (via trainer), starting at
  level 20.
- Conjure Food now has a new rank (Rank 7) available in Stratholme.
- Frost Ward now has a new rank (Rank 5) available as item loot in 
  dungeons.
- Mana Shield - Damage taken will now be absorbed by other absorb 
  spells (e.g. Ice Barrier, Power Word: Shield) before being absorbed by 
  Mana Shield.
- Dampen Magic - Damage and healing reduction increased on ranks 3 
  through 5.
- Amplify Magic - Damage and healing bonus increased on ranks 2 
  through 4.
- Counterspell - Fixed a bug that made Counterspell unresistable.
- Improved Scorch - Duration of Fire Vulnerability increased to 30 
  seconds.
- Blast Wave: The bonus this spell receives from effects that increase 
  spell damage has been increased.
- Cold Snap: This talent will now always clear the cooldown for Frost 
  Ward, even if the cooldown was triggered by casting Fire Ward.
- Cone of Cold: The bonus this spell receives from effects that 
  increase spell damage has been increased.
- Fire Ward: The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Frost Ward: The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Arcane Power: This ability will no longer stack with Power Infusion. 
  If you gain both at the same time, Arcane Power will take precedence.
- Added a new level 60 quest available from Archmage Xylem in Azshara 
  for mages.
- Fire Ruby now has a sell value and can be disenchanted. 

Paladins
- Benediction: This talent will no longer incorrectly provide a double 
  discount to Seal of Justice.
- Blessing of Light: It is no longer possible for a target to appear to 
  have multiple ranks of Blessing of Light. These multiple auras had no 
  beneficial effect, merely causing confusion. Problems with targeting 
  the spell when the caster has Blessing of Light effect on them have 
  also been fixed.
- Divine Favor: It is no longer possible to cast this immediately after 
  a healing spell and "retroactively" make it a critical hit.
- Illumination: When several critical effect healing spells are cast 
  very quickly, you will now receive the correct mana refund for each 
  one.
- Judgement of Command: Now consumes a charge of the Zandalarian Hero 
  Charm. In addition, when this spell is resisted it will no longer 
  erroneously still do damage.
- Judgement of Righteousness: Now consumes a charge of the Zandalarian 
  Hero Charm.
- Seal of Command: Clarified tooltip.
- Vengeance: Seal of Command critical hits can now trigger this ability.
- Vindication: This effect will no longer be absorbed by Grounding Totem. 

Priests
- Lightwell - Casting time reduced. Lightwell object increased in size 
  to make it easier to click; relative click radius decreased slightly.
- Mind Control: If you cast Power Word: Shield while Mind Controlling a 
  target, the Recently Shielded aura will now appear on the correct 
  target instead of yourself.
- Spirit of Redemption: This spell has a number of fixes: Spirit of 
  Redemption form now has casting animations. Priests prematurely 
  leaving battlegrounds with this aura on will now receive the Deserter 
  debuff (as intended); Priests in Spirit of Redemption form at the 
  completion of a battleground will have the aura removed without 
  dying; It will now work correctly with the Darkmoon Card Twisting 
  Nether item, resurrecting you after Spirit of Redemption has run its 
  course; If you should die underwater the Spirit of Redemption will no 
  longer have a breath bar appear; the Warlock Drain Soul spell will 
  terminate producing 1 shard when the Priest switches to Spirit of 
  Redemption form; You will no longer have to wait 30 seconds for 
  graveyard resurrection upon your first death while using Spirit of 
  Redemption.
- Vampiric Embrace: This ability will no longer heal for damage caused
  when the target had no life remaining.
- Shadowguard: This Troll Priest racial spell now works with Vampiric 
  Embrace, Blackout, and Shadow Weaving. In addition, the damage from 
  Shadowguard will now consume charges of the Zandalarian Hero Charm's 
  Unstable Power aura. The range on Shadowguard has been extended to 
  hit anyone within vision range.

Rogues
- Detect Traps is now a passive skill.
- Pick Pocket: This ability will no longer trigger effects on your 
  target.
- Slice and Dice: This ability will no longer play its sound effect
  twice.
- Vanish: Canceling your Stealth aura while Vanish is running will now 
  cause Vanish to be canceled as well.
- Hemorrhage: Your damage over time effects will no longer consume 
  charges of Hemorrhage. 

Warlocks
- Shadow Ward now has a new rank (Rank 4) available as item loot in 
  dungeons. The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Soul Link: If your pet is banished, Soul Link will stop functioning 
  until Banish wears off. In addition, Soul Link's tooltip has been 
  clarified to indicate it only works with your imp, voidwalker, 
  succubus, or felhunter.
- Curse of Agony: The damage from this spell will now continue even if 
  the caster dies or leaves the area.
- Emberstorm: This talent will now correctly increase the damage the 
  Warlock takes from Hellfire.
- Hellfire: Aftermath can now be triggered by this spell.
- Improved Shadow Bolt: Periodic damage spells and non-damaging spells 
  will no longer consume charges of Shadow Vulnerability.
- Shadowburn: If you cast Drain Soul while this aura is on the victim, 
  you will no longer receive two soul shards upon the victim's death.

Shaman
- Due to significant talent changes, Shaman will have all talent points
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent spell 
  replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Anticipation : Now increases chance to dodge by 1-5%.
- Following durations have been increased - Disease Cleansing Totem, 
  Fire Resistance Totem, Flametongue Totem, Frost Resistance Totem, 
  Grace of Air Totem - Ranks 1 and 2 increased, Nature Resistance 
  Totem, Poison Cleansing Totem, Stoneskin Totem, Strength of Earth 
  Totem - Ranks 1 through 4 increased, Tremor Totem, Windfury Totem, 
  Windwall Totem.
- The following mana costs have been reduced - Searing Totem, Mana 
  Spring Totem, Healing Stream Totem, Rockbiter, Frostbrand, 
  Flametongue and Windfury.
- Two-Handed Axes/Maces (Enhancement Talent) - Skill levels gained 
  with these two weapons will now be retained if you decide to unspend 
  this talent point and return to it later.
- Flame Shock - Damage over time portion of all ranks slightly 
  increased. Mana cost of ranks 3 through 5 decreased.
- Improved Reincarnation (Restoration Talent) - Fixed a bug where rank 
  1 of this talent was not decreasing the cooldown properly.
- Elemental Fury: Tooltip now indicates it increases the critical 
  damage for Searing Totem, Magma Totem, and Fire Nova Totem.
- Fire Nova Totem: This totem now receives increased healing from 
  effects that increase the Shaman's spell damage.
- Grounding Totem: This totem will no longer reflect the Mage talent 
  Combustion back onto the Mage.
- Healing Stream Totem: This totem now receives increased healing from 
  effects that increase the Shaman's healing.
- Lightning Bolt: Mana cost reduced approximately 17%.
- Lightning Shield: Some battleground power-up effects were consuming 
  charges of Lightning Shield. They no longer cause charges to be 
  consumed. The range on Lightning Shield has been extended to hit 
  anyone within vision range.
- Magma Totem: This totem now receives increased damage from effects 
  that increase the Shaman's spell damage.
- Searing Totem: This totem now receives increased damage from effects 
  that increase the Shaman's spell damage. 
- Elemental Mastery: If you have this effect and Clearcasting at the 
  same time, the Clearcasting effect will be consumed first.

Warriors
- Improved Bloodrage talent changed to generate additional rage when 
  the ability is used.
- Improved Revenge ranks evened out, resulting in an additional 5% for 
  the final rank. Chance to stun at each rank changed to 15/30/45%.
- Bloodrage - Fixed a bug that caused Bloodrage to cost twice the 
  intended health.
- Flurry: The tooltip for this talent has been adjusted to indicate it 
  only works on normal melee swings.
- Shield Slam: This ability has received a redesign. It now costs 20 
  rage to use and the damage it does is modified by your shield block 
  value. However, the base damage has been reduced. 
  It generates more threat per rage and more damage per rage than it 
  did previously.
- Sweeping Strikes: This spell has a number of fixes: When used in 
  conjunction with Execute and the second victim is below 20% health, 
  they will be hit with the full Execute amount. If the second victim 
  is not below 20% health, they will be hit with normal melee swing 
  damage; If the ability you are using does not deal damage, it will 
  not use a charge of Sweeping Strikes; The extra attack it generates 
  when used with Whirlwind now has the correct damage range; The 
  additional attacks generated by this ability will now properly take
  into account the armor of the second target. 

Items
- Key rings have been added to the game.
   Level 1-39 = 4 slots
   Level 40-49 = 8 slots
   Level 50-60 = 12 slots
- Permanent Dungeon Keys 
   Key to Searing Gorge
   Workshop Key
   The Scarlet Key
   Shadowforge Key
   Key to the City
   Skeleton Key
   Prison Cell Key
   Crescent Key
- Stack sizes have been updated:
   Stacks of 20
   Leather (Light, Medium, etc.)
   Cured Hides (Light, Medium, etc.)
   Shards (Small Brilliant, etc.)
   Enchanting Dusts (Strange, Illusion, etc.)
   Flash Powder
   Rogue Poisons (Instant, Crippling, etc.)
   Rogue Poison Reagents (Essence of Pain, Deathweed, etc.)
   
   Stacks of 10
   Hides (Light, Medium, etc.) 
- We have re-evaluated the mechanics of consumable items in the game 
  and concluded that these should work in a more intuitive manner. As 
  such, most items that can not be equipped with right click abilities 
  have been streamlined into one of three categories. Using an item of 
  a particular category will trigger a shared cooldown among all other 
  items in the same category. The categories break down as follows with
  category cooldowns as listed.
   Potions 2 minutes: This includes items such as Health Potion, Mana 
   Potion, Invisibility Potion and Mighty Rage Potion.
   Aggressive 1 minute: This includes items such as explosives, Really 
   Sticky Glue and Discombobulator Ray.
   Non-Aggresive 2 minutes: This includes items such as Healthstone, 
   Night Dragon's Breath, Whipper Root Tuber and Target Dummy. 
- Many items that can be equipped have had their cooldown category 
  removed and will be controlled exclusively by the item's self 
  cooldown. For example, the Gnomish Mind Control Cap should no longer 
  trigger the cooldown of the Talisman of Arathor.
- We have re-evaluated the class specific quest rewards for both 
  Zul'Gurub and Ahn'Qiraj Ruins. To bring them more in line with the 
  effort required to attain them we have upgraded the superior items to 
  epic quality.
- Updated the set bonus tool tip for The Elements and The Five Thunders 
  set to better explain it's function
- Antenna of Invigoration's damage type has been changed to Nature, it 
  was never intended to do physical damage. It will also now properly 
  display it's firing animation.
- Slave Master Blackheart will now drop loot appropriate of a rare NPC.
- The binding on Amulet of the Redeemed and Shroud of Arcane Mastery 
  have both now been changed to the intended Bind of Acquire.
- The Gnomish Mind Control Cap may now only be used on targets that are 
  not in combat.
- Deathdealer's Spaulders were unintentionally given higher stats than 
  they should have had for an item of their level, this has been 
  corrected.
- Uther's Strength is now properly flagged as Bind of Equip.
- The Tome of Divine Right has it's mana regen function changed to the 
  intended On Equip instead of On Use.
- Perdiot Circles have been properly renamed to Peridot Circles
- Low level boars/wolves drop boar meat and wolf meat much more 
  frequently now to facilitate cooking
- A number of items have had their stacking limits increased including 
  leather, enchanting dust/shards and rogue poisons/reagents among 
  others.
- Ashwood seeds can now be placed in herb bags.
- All food/drink can be eaten while silenced. Previously some food/
  drink could not be consumed when under the effect of a silence.
- The Mantle of the Timbermaw will now make the correct inventory 
  sounds.
- The Spirit of Zandalar will no longer persist through death.
- Ancient Hakkari Manslayer: This item will no longer trigger 
  erroneously on the strike which kills the target.
- Badge of the Swarmguard: The Insight of the Quiraji aura no longer 
  displays any duration. It is removed when The Badge of the Swarmguard 
  aura is removed.
- Black Grasp of the Destroyer: Losing targeting on your enemy will no 
  longer prevent you from gaining the mana when this item triggers its 
  effect.
- Blade of Eternal Darkness: This item can now correctly trigger its 
  effect from any harmful spell.
- Bloodfang Set Bonus: The damage effect from the 8-piece bonus on this 
  set will no longer trigger on (and break) Gouge.
- Bonfires: This stationary fires will no longer create two messages in 
  the combat log each time they deal damage.
- Clutch of Foresight: This item now functions when the user is 
  silenced.
- Darkmoon Fair Card Twisting Nether: If you are Soulstoned, Soulstone 
  will now always take priority over Twisting Nether's effect.
- Earthfury Set: When Healing Wave chains to additional targets from 
  this set bonus, it will no longer pick uninjured targets.
- Darkmoon Fair Card Blue Dragon: This item will no longer trigger from 
  using any ability which does not cost mana.
- Enigma Set: The Enigma's Answer effect will no longer trigger from 
  items.
- Health Regen Every 5 Seconds: Items with this bonus have been fixed 
  so that the health regeneration occurs during combat again.
- Holy Mightstone: The spell damage bonus from this item will no longer 
  increase the melee damage done against undead. The attack power bonus
  will still function as intended.
- Hurricane: This weapon was not dealing the listed frost damage. That
  listed frost damage has been replaced with a chance to trigger a 
  damaging frost effect.
- Implements of Unspoken Names: This set bonus had an error that made 
  it not properly affect base damage from pets. That error has been 
  corrected.
- Primal Hakkari Tokens: These items from Zul'Gurub now identify which 
  classes can use them in their item descriptions.
- Rejuvenation Potions: Any type of potion or consumable that grants 
  mana and healing will no longer be consumable unless either your 
  health or your mana are below maximum.
- Robes of Insight: This item's effect will no longer lose charges when 
  casting spells that have no mana cost.
- Rune of the Dawn: This trinket will no longer have any effect on 
  melee damage done to undead.
- Scarab Brooch: Holy Nova and healing from Holy Shock will now 
  properly trigger this item's ability.
- Shadowstrike: The cooldown on transforming this item is now always 60
  seconds.
- Stormshroud Set: The Lightning effect from this set will no longer 
  break your Gouge.
- Temporary Spell Damage Auras: (eg. Unstable Power, Power Infusion,
  etc.) All of the items which grant temporary spell damage bonuses are 
  now correctly set not to trigger off items, and to trigger off any 
  appropriate spell the player knows.
- The Elements Set: This set bonus will no longer trigger from 
  tradeskills.
- The Five Thunders Set: This set bonus will no longer trigger from 
  tradeskills.
- The Ten Storms Set: The Lighting Shield bonus placed on other players
  will function correctly again. In addition, it will no longer be 
  possible to gain more than one Lightning Shield effect from this set 
  bonus anymore.
- Totem of Life: Effect increased.
- Thunderstrike: The cooldown on transforming this item is now always 
  60 seconds.
- Trappings of The Unseen Path: This set bonus had an error that made 
  it not properly affect base damage from pets. That error has been 
  corrected.
- Troll's Blood Potions: These potions have been fixed that so that the 
  health regeneration occurs during combat again.
- Ultra-Flash Shadow Reflector: This item can now reflect the damage 
  caused by the Troll Priest racial spell Shadowguard.
- Zandalarian Hero Charm: The damage and healing on this item have been
  reduced by 30%. Instead of granting 35 damage and 70 healing per 
  charge, it now grants 25 damage and 50 healing per charge. Several 
  Paladin spells, Starshards, and Lightning Shield were not consuming 
  charges of this trinket. All those spells have been fixed. In 
  addition, totems which now benefit from increased damage and healing 
  will also consume charges (Healing Stream Totem, Searing Totem, Magma 
  Totem, and Fire Nova Totem)
- Eating and Drinking: You will no longer fall through a chair you are 
  sitting in if you eat or drink. 

Professions
- Fishing
   Schools of Fish have been spotted off the coast of Azshara
   Swarms of Eels have been spotted off the shores of Feralas, Tanaris, 
   Azshara and southern Stranglethorn.
   Bloated Fish will no longer be found in wreckage 
- Tailoring
   Dreamweave Circlet is now a Superior quality item
   Four new nature resist cloth armor recipes have been added to the 
   merchants at Cenarion Hold for those with high Cenarion Circle 
   reputation. 
- Leatherworking
   Three new nature resist leather armor recipes have been added to 
   the ghost leatherworker of Silithus for those with high Cenarion 
   Circle reputation. 
- Blacksmithing
   A number of weapons made with Fiery and Lava cores have had their 
   material requirements reduced. Black Amnesty, Blackfury, Ebon Hand, 
   Blackguard, Nightfall are the affected weapons.
   The Dark Iron Bracers and Fiery Chain Girdle have had the materials 
   required to make them reduced significantly.
   The Ebon Hand has had its attack speed decreased somewhat.
   The axesmith weapon Nightfall effect has been changed from -60 
   resistance to +15% spell damage taken. Also its speed has been 
   decreased somewhat.
   Three new nature resist plate recipes have been added to the 
   merchants at Cenarion Hold for those with high Cenarion Circle 
   reputation. 
- Mining
   Smelting Bronze, Silver and Iron will give increases to mining skill 
   for somewhat longer than they used to. 
- Enchanting
   The two-handed agility Enchanting recipe now provides a green glow 
   on those weapons. 
- Alchemy
   The Gift of Arthas now uses the elixir cooldown rather than the 
   potion cooldown. 
- Engineering
   Grenades and Mortars now are set to use the "Controlled Stun" 
   mechanic so using grenades in conjunction with other stuns (such as 
   Hammer of Justice) may give you diminishing returns.
   The materials used in sapper charges have become less stable and now 
   on occasion sapper charges will only affect the user lighting them 
   on fire for a period of time.
   A player is now much more likely to break out of the The Reckless 
   Charge effect of the Rocket Helmet early. This is to maintain 
   consistency with all other effects that take control away from a 
   player (Sheep, Stun, Hibernate, etc...). This change only affects 
   players, there is no change in using it against monsters.
   When a Paladin is replaced by their Evil Twin due to transporter 
   malfunction, they can no longer revert to their normal self using 
   divine shield.
   Tranquil Mechanical Yetis are no longer unique. 

Quests
- Light's Hope Chapel has been revamped and is now a fully functional 
  quest hub.
   A new mailbox has been added.
   The chapel is now flagged as an inn.
   A guard system is in place.
   New vendors have been added. 
- Dozens of new quests have been added to Light's Hope.
- A new LEGENDARY item quest has been added! Casters rejoice (and 
  druids too)!
- Aurel Goldleaf at Cenarion Hold in Silithus has a new quest.
- New quests available in Zul'Gurub and Light's Hope Chapel for head 
  and leg resistance enchantments.
- Several new tradeskill quests have been added to assist players in 
  obtaining frost resistance armor and items.
- Dire Maul Librams may now drop in any wing.
- Blood of the Black Dragon Champion is now a multi-drop quest item. 
  Everyone on their respective faction's quest will be able to loot 
  the blood. 

Reputations
- Cenarion Circle
   A new quest is available at Cenarion Hold for players who wish to 
   turn in Combat, Logistics and Tactical Badges for reputation.
   Encrypted Twilight Texts now stack to 250
   Combat Missions from the Field Duty questline in Silithus are now 
   received in batches of four (all hitting the same hive)
   Envelopes for all Field Duty Assignments are now non-unique
   Unsigned Field Duty Papers now need to be "prepared" by players by
   right-clicking on them. This action has a 3-minute cooldown.
   Completing the Field Duty quest has a reputation reward once again. 
- Bloodsail Buccaneers
   New repeatable "turn-in" quests have been added to each of the 
   goblin cities as a vehicle to raise the player's faction with them
   (while decreasing the player's Bloodsail Buccaneer faction) 
- Hydraxian Waterlords
   New revered option for Hydraxian Waterlords faction allows players 
   to receive a non-consumable version of Aqual Quintessence 

Raids and Dungeons
- Release timers have been be removed from instances. This includes 
  dungeons, battlegrounds, and raid instances.
- Instituted an anti-exploit measure on certain encounters (almost 
  entirely raid bosses). These encounters will prevent people from 
  zoning into the instance while that encounter is engaged. If you 
  attempt to zone into the instance while that encounter is engaged, 
  you will be resurrected at the outside entrance. We will be making 
  adjustments to the entrances to Molten Core and Blackwing Lair to 
  accommodate this change. Combat resurrections, soulstones, 
  reincarnate, etc. will still work fine. This is primarily to combat 
  graveyard rushing in instances.
- Zul'Gurub
   Class specific armor quests given by the Zandalarian trolls of 
   Yojamba Isle no longer require Bijous or coins for completion. Armor 
   quests now only require a Primal Hakkari piece and appropriate 
   faction with Zandalar.
   Class specific enchantments given by Zanza the Restless no longer 
   require Arcanum (Librams) from Dire Maul. The requirements have been 
   changed to items found within Zul'Gurub. Speak with Zanza the 
   Restless for more information.
   The various clan speakers (Bloodscalp Speaker, Sandfury Speaker, 
   etc) have had their hit points reduced considerably.
   Zandalarian Armor Replacement - Due to the changes made to the armor 
   rewards from the Paragons of Power quests, the trolls of Yojamba 
   Isle will now offer to replace pieces of armor that have been lost 
   or deleted.
   After careful consideration we have decided to add an additional 
   loot table to the High Priests of Zul'Gurub. Players should now see
   two items in addition to the tokens when slaying these bosses.
   When Hakkar gains the Berserk effect, Hakkar will now emote that he
   is berserk instead of emoting that he is enraged. 
- Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj
   Ossirian the Unscarred - There is a new crystal that will be visible
   before the encounter begins. Players can use this crystal just like 
   any other crystal in the encounter, but it cannot come back up 
   during the encounter.
   Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj Class Set Reward Replacement - Due to the changes
   made to the rewards from the Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj class set quests, 
   players can obtain replacements for lost or deleted quest rewards 
   from Warden Haro, Keyl Swiftclaw, and Windcaller Yessendra in 
   Cenarion Hold.
   The hitpoints of every creature in the General Rajaxx encounter has
   been lowered.
   Damage of General Rajaxx has been lowered.
   The wait time between waves in this encounter has been shortened. 
- Princess Huhuran's Acid Spit can no longer be redirected by Grounding 
  Totems.
- Arygos in the Temple of Ahn'Qiraj will now offer to teleport players 
  to the following places given the following conditions have been met:
   If the Twin Emperors have been defeated, Arygos will teleport 
   players to their lair.
   If Ouro has been defeated, Arygos will teleport players to the 
   chamber where the dragons are being held prisoner.
   Arygos will not teleport players that are in combat. 
- Emeriss, Lethon, Taerar, Ysondre - Some of their abilities will be 
  less predictable than before
- Tinkerer Gizlock can now throw Flash Bombs
- The Gordok Inner Door Key will now properly be destroyed if you are 
  ever outside the instance and alive. 

User Interface
- If the master looter assigns a unique item to a player that already 
  has that item, or any item to a player whose inventory is full, he 
  will get an error message and be able to reassign the loot
- Text that a raid leader sends to chat will now be displayed in a 
  different color and will have the [Raid Leader] label.
- There is now a new raid warning chat channel available to raid 
  leaders and assistants. Text that is sent to this channel will appear 
  in the center of the screen for all players in the raid. The channel 
  is called Raid Warning and text can be sent to it with "/rw"
- Raid leaders now have a Ready Check button on their raid interface. 
  This can also be sent with /readycheck from the chat line. A Ready 
  Check sends an "Are you ready?" window with Yes/No buttons to all 
  players in the raid. The raid leader will get feedback in 30 seconds 
  on all the players who were not ready or who did not respond.
- Players now have a Raid Info button on their raid interface that 
  functions the same way /raidinfo worked before. This function will 
  display a pane showing all of the raid instances that a player is 
  saved to, rather than displaying it to the chat window.
- Players in a party may now select an option that allows them to all 
  currently open instances.
   You only get the reset all instances option if you are a party 
   leader.
   The UI option appears if you are a party leader, you have one or 
   more instances open, and you are not currently in an instance.
   The UI option is a right-click option off of your own portrait (like 
   party loot options).
   You get a warning dialogue when you select this option asking if you 
   really want to reset all instances.
   If you select reset all instances, all non-raid instances will be 
   reset to their starting condition. 
- Auction Search Results.
   It should say "Searching for Items" when it is still seeking results.
   It should only say "No Items Found" when it has completed a search 
   and not gotten any hits from your criteria. 
- The Repair all button on NPC's that repair will now repair all of the
  items that you are carrying whether you have them equipped or not.
- Parties and Raids now can mark targets for their party/raid in the 
  gamefield. A party leader or raid leader/assistant can right-click the
  portrait of their target to select a symbol to associate with that 
  target. All players in the party/raid will see the selected symbol 
  over the head of the target as well as on the portrait of that target.
- Players can now turn on the "Target of Target" in the Raid and Party 
  section of the interface options. When this is turned on, anytime a 
  player is in a party or raid, it will show the portrait and health of 
  whatever your current target has targeted. You can click on that 
  portrait to target that thing directly or if you have the spell glove 
  up you can cast spells on the target of target without targeting it 
  directly.
- Bags that you are carrying now have a brown background when opened 
  and bags that are in your bank have a gray background when opened. 
  This will allow a player to more easily tell the difference between a 
  bag they are carrying and one that is in their bank.
- When reputation increases from one level to the next (Friendly to 
  Honored for instance) that text will be displayed to the chat log 
  instead of to the combat log.
- The Group Loot/Need before Greed dialogue will now show a golden 
  dragon border around Bind on Pickup items.
- The party leader can now reset a dungeon instance from the interface.
  If the party has recently been inside an instance but is now outside 
  of the instance, the party leader will have a right-click option from 
  their own portrait (where you select the loot UI preference) that is 
  "Reset all Instances". If this is selected all non raid instances will
  be reset for the party.
- Players now automatically have Keyrings. When a player first acquires
  a key, they will automatically acquire a keyring that can only hold 
  permanent dungeon keys. The size of the keyring will increase as the 
  player goes up in level up to 12 key slots at level 60.
- Additional action bars now have range indicators on them. If a button 
  in one of a players additional action bars has a range component, it 
  will display a red dot when a target is out of range.
- You can now target a player by clicking their name from the chat log
  and selecting the "Target" option.
- Spells that have a lasting effect on a player and have charges such 
  as the Shaman's Lightning Shield spell will now display how many 
  charges are left on spell icon.
- The icons of negative effects on that appear on the player now have 
  a color to indicate their type. Curses are purple, disease is yellow, 
  poison is green and magic is blue. In addition when a party member is 
  struck by one of these four types of negative effects, their portrait 
  will pulse the appropriate color for 30 seconds or until the effect 
  is removed.
- Using B at the bank will now toggle open/closed all of your bags and 
  all of your bank bags.
- When you are at the bank and your open bags would start to overlap 
  with your bank pane, your bags will scale down to a smaller size so
  you can access all of your bags and the bank at the same time.
- Many new Tips of the Day have been added.
- The interface event processing has been optimized while zoning.
- Your interface windows are no longer closed when you zone.
- You can now bind the mousewheel to button actions.
- You can now rebind the screenshot action, though the print screen 
  button cannot be reassigned
- When you kill a creature, the combat log will report "You have
  slain !"
- Reloading the UI requires user input.

World Environment
- New flight points can be found at Ratchet and Marshall's Refuge, 
  Un'Goro Crater.
- Flight paths added between:
   Morgan's Vigil - Lakeshire
   Revantusk Village - Light's Hope Chapel
   Aerie Peak - Chillwind Point
   Stonetalon Peak - Nijel's Point
   Cenarion Hold - Feathermoon Stronghold
   Cenarion Hold - Camp Mojache
   Cenarion Hold - Un'Goro Crater
   Gadgetzan - Un'Goro Crater
   Crossroads - Ratchet
   Theramore - Ratchet
   Ratchet - Talendris Point
   Moonglade - Talonbranch
   Splintertree - Valormok
   Hammerfall - Revantusk Village
   Camp Mojache - Freewind Post 
- Several flight paths adjusted for smoother transitions on linked 
  flights.
- Hive'Ashi Workers, Hive'Zora Tunnelers and Hive'Regal Burrowers have 
  been set to much quicker respawn times.
- Lord Skwol, Prince Skaldrenox, Baron Kazum and High Marshal Whirlaxis 
  in Silithus have had their balance reviewed. They should be much 
  closer in difficulty to one another and are tuned for a 20 person 
  raid group.
- Buru the Gorger's Creeping Plague has been slightly reduced
- Creatures that enrage at low health will no longer be enraged after 
  combat.
- The group pulls before General Drakkisath once again have linked agro.
- Fixed several typographical errors in various guard directions.
- A few more civilians, who previously assisted guards, no longer do so.
- Incendosaur should now be giving the correct amount of experience 
  when killed.
- Blackwater Deckhands no longer respawn instantly.
- Plague Swine now can be skinned.
- The plague trap crate in Stratholme will now correctly show up as 
  trapped when using detect trap.
- Skeletal Shadowcasters in Razorfen Downs no longer drop loot.
- Emperor Dagran Thaurissan will once again use his Avatar of Flame 
  ability.
- The Goblin Craftsman's Melt Ore ability will be properly modified by 
  Amplify and Dampen Magic.
- Slaughterhouse Protectors can no longer be feared. 

Mac
- "Maximized Windowed Mode" on a multiple display setup now leaves 
  extra displays available for desktop use.
- In windowed mode, the window position and size is now saved on exit.
- Command-clicking the zoom button in windowed mode will now toggle 
  amongst a few standard sizes.
- The desktop is no longer displayed when switching between full-screen 
  resolutions.
- Cinematic support on 10.4.x systems has been revised to use CoreVideo 
  for playback.
- Fixed a bug that could disrupt window sizes of other apps and desktop 
  icons when switching in and out of fullscreen mode.
- Keyboard event processing has been improved and is less likely to 
  drop keystrokes.
- The config.wtf variable "screenshotFormat" allows the user to choose 
  "png", "jpeg", or "tga" (Targa) format for screen shots.
- Fixed an issue in WoW where pasting in multi-line text from the 
  clipboard would result in one long line of text in the text view.
- Fixed an issue where international characters were not being copied 
  and pasted correctly in some situations.
- Conditional support for future OpenGL performance enhancements in 
  OS X. 
- Fixed a bug which could cause improper on-screen positioning of game 
  scene when using a mod such as CTWorldFrame, in conjunction with 
  fullscreen effects such as the glow & death effects.

Bug Fixes
- You no longer take durability damage if you die from a player-cast 
  debuff after zoning.
- You get a failure message if you fail to dispel debuffs on yourself.
- If Heroic Strike or Raptor Strike fails, your combat swing will do 
  normal damage.
- Fixed cursor tooltip positioning in widescreen video modes.
- You will be removed from combat when Bloodrage ends, unless you are 
  engaged with the enemy.
- The range for resurrection is the same whether the target player has 
  released or not.
- The Warlock Succubus will no longer auto-cast Seduction on a creature 
  with damage over time effects on them.
- Warlock minions are now properly labeled as minions when logging in.
- Pets can no longer agro creatures in rooms above or below them.
- Mind Vision now cancels when the target is not visible.
- Shapeshifted Druids now maintain proper voice over.
- Spell charges are properly retained after zoning.
- Heals from the priest's Vampiric Embrace will no longer keep the 
  priest in combat.
- Right-clicking on a lower rank Lightwell while a higher rank 
  Lightwell Renew is on will no longer expend a charge.
- Ghost icons now appear appropriately in Raid UI pullouts.
- Friendly creatures' pets no longer occasionally attack a player's pet.
- Area-of-effect spells will no longer occasionally damage creatures 
  with which you are not at war.
- The Warriors's ability Execute now dims properly when the target is 
  dead.
- If a Hunter dies just as a pet is tamed, the pet won't lose its 
  innate abilities.
- The Rogue's ability Distract now works properly against other players.
- Fixed a bug that caused abilities to lock up after being feared, 
  charmed, or polymorphed.
- Other players will properly see the changes when you toggle the Show 
  Helm or Show Cloak option.
- Fixed a bug where characters were able to exceed 100% of their normal 
  mana regeneration while casting. 

UI Scripting
- Frame XML Change - There is a new "clampToScreen" attribute, which 
  will prevent the frame from being dragged off the screen.
- Button XML Changes
   The button implementation has been changed from three fontstrings 
   to a single fontstring with three font objects. This is more 
   efficient, uses less memory, and reduces the complexity of defining
   a button. To support this, the existing NormalText, HighlightText, 
   and DisabledText elements have been deprecated (though they will 
   still work in 1.11 for backwards compatibility), and new elements 
   ButtonText, NormalFont, HighlightFont, and DisabledFont are defined 
   to replace them. 
- New API Functions
   SetCursor() can now be passed a 32x32 texture filename, as well as a
   cursor mode, or nil to reset the cursor.
   GetAddOnMetadata("addon", "field") - returns the value of the 
   following fields in the addon TOC file: Title, Notes, Author, 
   Version, and any field starting with X- 
- Region Script Object - Region is the base object type for all frames, 
  textures and fontstrings. Region is also the type of object returned 
  by the new Frame:GetTitleRegion() method. Region:GetObjectType() returns 
  "Region", and Region:IsObjectType("type") returns true if "type" is 
  "Region".
   All regions have the following member functions:
   type = Region:GetObjectType()
   isType = Region:IsObjectType("type")
   name = Region:GetName()
   frame = Region:GetParent()
   Region:SetParent(frame)
   x,y = Region:GetCenter()
   x = Region:GetLeft()
   x = Region:GetRight()
   y = Region:GetTop()
   y = Region:GetBottom()
   width = Region:GetWidth()
   Region:SetWidth(width)
   height = Region:GetHeight()
   Region:SetHeight(height)
   numPoints = Region:GetNumPoints()
   "point",relativeObject,"relativePoint",xOfs,yOfs = 
   Region:GetPoint(index)
   Region:SetPoint("point" [, LayoutFrame] [, "relativePoint"] 
   [, offsetX, offsetY])
   Region:SetAllPoints(LayoutFrame)
   Region:ClearAllPoints() 
- New Texture Methods
   ULx,ULy,LLx,LLy,URx,URy,LRx,LRy = Texture:GetTexCoord()
   isDesaturated = Texture:IsDesaturated() 
- New FontString Methods - nonSpaceWrap = FontString:CanNonSpaceWrap()
- New Frame Methods
   Frame:RegisterAllEvents() - For debugging purposes only!
   enabled = Frame:IsKeyboardEnabled()
   enabled = Frame:IsMouseEnabled()
   enabled = Frame:IsMouseWheelEnabled()
   region = Frame:CreateTitleRegion()
   region = Frame:GetTitleRegion()
   Frame:SetHitRectInsets(left, right, top, bottom)
   left, right, top, bottom = Frame:GetHitRectInsets()
   minWidth, minHeight = Frame:GetMinResize()
   maxWidth, maxHeight = Frame:GetMaxResize()
   backdropTable = Frame:GetBackdrop(backdropTable) - backdropTable 
   will be filled in and returned.
   r, g, b, a = Frame:GetBackdropColor()
   r, g, b, a = Frame:GetBackdropBorderColor()
   Frame:SetClampedToScreen(clamped)
   clamped = Frame:IsClampedToScreen() 
- New Button Methods
   Button:SetFontString(fontstring)
   texture = Button:GetNormalTexture()
   texture = Button:GetPushedTexture()
   texture = Button:GetDisabledTexture()
   texture = Button:GetHighlightTexture()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetTextColor()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetDisabledTextColor()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetHighlightTextColor()
   Button:SetPushedTextOffset(x, y)
   x, y = Button:GetPushedTextOffset() 
- New CheckButton Methods
   texture = CheckButton:GetCheckedTexture()
   texture = CheckButton:GetDisabledCheckedTexture() 
- New EditBox Methods
   EditBox:SetAutoFocus(isAutofocus)
   isAutofocus = EditBox:IsAutoFocus()
   EditBox:SetMultiLine(isMultiline)
   isMultiline = EditBox:IsMultiLine()
   EditBox:SetNumeric(isNumeric)
   isNumeric = EditBox:IsNumeric()
   EditBox:SetPassword(isPassword)
   isPassword = EditBox:IsPassword()
   EditBox:SetBlinkSpeed(speed)
   speed = EditBox:GetBlinkSpeed()
   bytes = EditBox:GetMaxBytes()
   letters = EditBox:GetMaxLetters()
   l, r, t, b = EditBox:GetTextInsets() 
- New MessageFrame Methods
   MessageFrame:SetInsertMode("TOP" or "BOTTOM")
   mode = MessageFrame:GetInsertMode()
   MessageFrame:SetFading(fading)
   fading = MessageFrame:GetFading()
   MessageFrame:SetTimeVisible(seconds)
   seconds = MessageFrame:GetTimeVisible()
   MessageFrame:SetFadeDuration(seconds)
   seconds = MessageFrame:GetFadeDuration()
   MessageFrame:Clear() 
- New ScrollingMessageFrame Methods - isAtTop = ScrollingMessageFrame:
  AtTop()
- New SimpleHTML Methods - format = SimpleHTML:GetHyperlinkFormat()
- New Model Methods
   filename = Model:GetModel()
   r, g, b, a = Model:GetFogColor()
   value = Model:GetFogNear()
   value = Model:GetFogFar()
   enabled, omni, dirX,dirY,dirZ, ambIntensity[,ambR,ambG,ambB], 
   dirIntensity[,dirR,dirG,dirB] = Model:GetLight() 
- New Slider Methods - texture = Slider:GetThumbTexture()
- New ColorSelect Methods
   ColorSelect:SetColorWheelTexture(texture or nil)
   ColorSelect:SetColorValueTexture(texture or nil)
   ColorSelect:SetColorValueThumbTexture(texture or "texture" or nil)
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorWheelTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorWheelThumbTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorValueTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorValueThumbTexture() 
- New Minimap Methods
   MiniMap:SetArrowModel("file")
   MiniMap:SetPlayerModel("file") 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.2 (2006-05-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Guild Recruitment channel functionality has been improved to be
  turned off for players already in guilds, and turned on for players 
  not in guilds by default.
- Fixed a bug which caused players to drop from combat after
  destroying a totem.
- Fixed a soft-lock bug that occurred under certain conditions when
  players were near ships, zeppelins, elevators, and the Deeprun Tram.

Mages
- Arcane Power: This aura will no longer stack with Power Infusion.
  If you use it, Arcane Power's aura will replace Power Infusion's 
  aura.
- Ignite should now proc correctly when landing a critical strike with 
  a fire spell. 

Paladins
- Holy Shock will now be guaranteed to crit when used offensively 
  while Divine Favor is active.
- Eye for an Eye will now properly produce its damage effect on the 
  attacking caster. 

Priests
- Inner Fire: Rank 3 will no longer have charges consumed when Power 
  Word: Shield is active.
- Power Infusion: This aura will no longer stack with Arcane Power. 
  If you attempt to cast it on someone with Arcane Power, the spell 
  will fail.
- Starshards: Ranks 1 and 2 inadvertently received too much bonus 
  from spell damage, while Rank 7 received no bonus from spell damage. Each of those ranks are now fixed to receive the correct bonus. 

Rogues
- Fixed a bug which prevented Vanish from working properly under 
  certain conditions.
- Seal Fate will now correctly provide a bonus combat point upon 
  landing a critical strike. 

Warlocks
- Improved Shadow Bolt will now proc properly after landing a critical 
  strike with Shadow Bolt. 

Warriors
- Rage generated from Unbridled Wrath and Shield Specialization will 
  now display properly in the combat log. 

Mac
- Fixed a client crash caused by weather effects when running OS 
  10.3.9. 

World Environment
- Players should no longer become dismounted while riding through 
  certain areas of the Undercity.
- Fixed a number of clipping issues and awkward turns discovered 
  throughout various chained flight paths.
- Certain creatures in Eastern Plaguelands weren't providing 
  reputation gain with the Argent Dawn. This has been fixed. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.1 (2006-04-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Druids
- Nature's Grace will now correctly trigger after every spell critical 
  strike.
- Fixed a bug that occasionally prevented the Omen of Clarity talent 
  from casting. 

Paladins
- Fixed a bug that occasionally prevented the Seal of Command talent 
  from casting. 

Warriors
- Fixed a bug where the Deep Wounds talent did not trigger "on next 
  melee" attacks when the player had initial aggro.

Items
- Thick Obsidian Breastplate: The effect from this item will now 
  properly trigger from the Warlock "Death Coil" spell.
- Jagged Obsidian Shield is now Bind on Equip. 

Professions
- Blacksmithing: Titanic Leggings Pattern will now drop slightly less 
  frequently. 

User Interface
- Fixed a bug that crashed the client when players in Moonkin, 
  Noggenfogger, Gordok Ogre Suit, Hallow's End form/costume attempted 
  to create a guild tabard.
- Fixed a bug that could crash the client when switching between 
  windowed and full screen mode, involving third-party UI using DXT 
  textures in .BLP files.
- Fixed a bug that caused an increase in UI Addon memory usage. Memory 
  usage has been reduced to previous levels.
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client when certain 
  friend list notifications were received.
- In Simple Chat mode, the chat window and combat log should now again 
  be in alignment.
- Fixed a bug that caused the combat log window to interfere with side 
  action bars when opening large windows.
- The raid window will now properly come into focus on top of the raid 
  group pullout.
- The rest bonus indicator will now properly appear when a faction is 
  shown on the experience bar. 
- Fixed a bug that was causing an error message to appear when opening 
  the Alterac Valley battle map.
- Food, drink, and mount icons placed on action bars are now properly 
  grayed out when the player is in combat.

World Environment
- The Prophet Skeram is now properly affected by "Curse of Tongues" 
  and "Mind-Numbing Poison."
- Fixed a bug that occasionally permitted players to mount in indoor 
  areas.
- Fixed a bug that did not properly discount subsequent legs on 
  chained flight paths according to reputation level. 
  
Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client during a login 
  attempt if the available realm list changed around the same time.
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client when certain 
  combinations of models and lighting were in effect.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.0 (2006-03-28)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New High-Level Armor Sets!
  Adventurers of Azeroth can now quest to upgrade their previous Rare-
  quality Dungeon set to a new, higher-quality set, including epic gear!
  These tasks include all-new boss encounters, so prepare your finest
  group of dungeon-delvers and prepare for a challenge! 

Weather!
  Weather has been introduced in the following areas around Azeroth:
  - Elwynn Forest
  - Tirisfal Glades
  - Dun Morogh
  - Darkshore
  - Alterac Mountains
  - Stranglethorn Vale
  - Feralas
  - Un'Goro Crater
  - Tanaris
  - Winterspring
  - Ahn'Qiraj 
  We will be adding more weather to the world as time progresses; this
  is simply the beginning! 

High-Level Instance Changes
  Along with the new Armor Sets, the high-level 5-10 man dungeons have
  received some changes regarding loot. Many items have been improved
  in quality and use. In addition, several epic items, such as
  Headmaster's Charge and the Runeblade of Baron Rivendare, have had
  their drop rates significantly increased. In order to preserve the
  challenge of these dungeons, they have had their instance caps
  lowered. Stratholme, Scholomance, and Blackrock Depths now allow a
  maximum of five players inside, and Blackrock Spire allows a maximum
  of ten. 

Quest Experience to Gold Conversion at Level 60
  Previously, quest experience was wasted if one completed a quest at
  level 60. In this patch, any quests done at maximum level will have
  their experience reward converted to a healthy amount of gold, thus
  adding additional incentive to completing those quests in your log
  once you hit 60. 

New Final Destination Flight Paths!
  If you're making several jumps to get to your destination, you will
  now be able to choose that flight path from your initial Flight
  Master. The costs will remain the same, but you no longer need to
  manually click on each path. The UI has also been improved
  significantly. 

General
- All spells/abilities that remove existing effects (e.g. Dispel Magic,
  Cleanse, Remove Curse etc...) will now verify that there is an effect
  that can be removed before casting.
- You will no longer lose your current target when affected by a crowd
  control spell (e.g. Fear, Polymorph etc...).
- Various tooltips updated.
- Pets no longer modify your reputation if you kill them.
- You no longer teleport to your flight destination when hit by
  snowballs.
- Passive damage effects like Oil of Immolation will cause creatures to
  attack when they are hit.
- Turning off the At-War flag will no longer stop neutral guards from
  attacking you.
- Trying to spoof item links will disconnect you.
- Fixed error message when attempting to start melee combat while
  unable to attack.
- Channelled spells are cancelled when a rogue vanishes.
- Channelled spells are cancelled when you zone.
- Damage over time spells are no longer affected by changes in
  equipment after the cast.
- You are no longer kept in combat while on auto-attack at long range.
- Area effect spells and abilities will no longer consider totems as
  valid targets.
- Charm spells on charmed creatures are no longer available to the
  players that charm them.
- Fixed a bug which could cause lava flows to be improperly rendered or
  invisible.
- Traps can now be detected in the same way stealthed units can be
  detected.
- Stealth and Invisibility effects will now be canceled at the
  beginning of an action (spellcast, ability use etc...), rather than
  at the completion of the action.
- Reputation will no longer be gained if a pet kills a monster without
  aid.
- Added support for widescreen video resolutions.


PvP & Battlegrounds
- Alterac Valley
   Flavor items from player loot in Alterac Valley will now stack and
   can be sold for a small value. These are items like Documents from 
   Boomstick Imports, Worn Running Shoes, etc.
   Players in Alterac Valley will no longer drop Darkspear Troll Mojo, 
   Dwarf Spines, Forsaken Hearts, Human Bone Chips, Orc Teeth, etc. and
   the quests have been removed for these items.  Instead when a player
   is slain in Alterac Valley, any enemies that were in that player's
   threat list will gain 1 point of reputation with either the
   Frostwolf or Stormpike factions.
   Frostwolf and Stormpike faction will now be gained by killing
   players of the opposite faction. Reputation will no longer be split 
   up among the entire raid group.
   Tower Banners in Alterac Valley can no longer be used through walls.
   Korrak the Bloodrager and his band of trolls have packed up their
   bags and left Alterac Valley for greener pastures.
- Arathi Basin
   The Horde can no longer bypass the gate before the match officially
   begins.
- The reputation gain in Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin has been
  significantly increased.
- Several Civilian NPCs that would assist the guards in attacking
  players no longer do so. 

Druids
- Healing Touch - Mana cost on all ranks reduced approximately 9%.
- Ravage - Can no longer be dodged, parried, or blocked.
- Cure Poison - Can no longer be cast while in Moonkin form.
- Gift of the Wild - Range and area of effect increased.
- Rip - Is now properly considered a Bleed effect.
- All shapeshift forms can now use equipped items.
- Nature's Swiftness - Now makes Rebirth and Soothe Animal spells
  instant cast.
- Bear Form and Dire Bear Form - It is no longer possible at very low
  health to die when shifting out of these forms.
- Pounce - This ability will no longer apply its bleed effect when the
  attack misses or is dodged.
- Some creature Mana Drain spells were previously able to mana drain
  druids in forms that do not display mana. That has been fixed.
- Previously, shifting into an animal form granted a one-second
  immunity to roots and snares. That has been changed to dispelling
  roots and snares.
- A new level 52 druid quest that takes place in Un'Goro crater has
  been added. 

Hunters
- Multi-Shot - This ability now has its attack power normalized the
  same as melee instant attacks. This means that the attack power
  contribution from all ranged weapons will be the same, no matter what
  their speed. All weapons will contribute attack power as if they were
  2.8 speed. Weapons slower than 2.8 speed will do slightly less damage
  than previously; weapons faster than 2.8 speed will do slightly more
  damage.
- Aimed Shot - This ability now has its attack power normalized the
  same as melee instant attacks. This means that the attack power
  contribution from all ranged weapons will be the same, no matter what
  their speed. All weapons will contribute attack power as if they were
  2.8 speed. Weapons slower than 2.8 speed will do slightly less damage
  than previously; weapons faster than 2.8 speed will do slightly more
  damage.
- Improved Aspect of the Hawk - The buff from this talent has had its
  duration increased from 8 seconds to 12 seconds. Note that the haste
  it provides does not begin until the second shot after the triggering
  shot. This change is to compensate for that delay.
- Hunter's Mark - This spell no longer triggers procs on the spell
  caster. This was being abused to land debuffs without getting on the
  creature's hate list.
- Claw and Bite - Pets using these abilities will now generate the
  correct amount of threat. Only ranks 7 and 8 of claw were generating
  the correct amount previously.
- Bestial Wrath - No longer generates threat for the Hunter.
- New high-level boars now exist in the Eastern Plaguelands and have a
  new rank 6 version of the pet ability: Charge.
- The special turtle ability Shell Shield has been improved to no
  longer root or pacify the turtle, but instead apply a 30% melee slow
  for the duration of the effect. Cooldown has been improved from 5
  minutes to 3 minutes.
- Freezing Traps are now affected by diminishing returns.
- Pet Frenzy - This effect will now trigger off any kind of critical
  hit by the pet.
- Fixed problem where a tamed pet would be lost if the hunter died as
  the tame completed.
- Distract no longer rotates hunters who have feigned death.
- Hunter traps now use the same rules as stealth rather than being
  invisible. Detect Trap has been changed to reflect this. 

Mages
- Improved Frost Ward - This ability now functions properly again.
- Improved Fire Ward - This ability now functions properly again.
- Detect Magic - This spell no longer triggers procs on the spell
  caster. This was being abused to land debuffs without getting on the
  creature's hate list.
- Ignite - This talent will now only trigger off fire damage generated 
  by mage spells. In addition, when a fire spell is reflected back at
  the caster, the caster will now correctly receive the Ignite damage.
- Arcane Brilliance - Range and area of effect increased.
- Impact - When a fire spell is reflected back at the caster, the
  caster will now correctly receive the Impact effect. 

Paladins
- Blessing of Light - Different ranks of this spell were stacking
  without causing additional effect. It was never intended for them to
  be able to stack, so they can no longer stack.
- Judgement of Justice - This judgement will now always hit.
- Righteous Fury - Righteous Fury will now always generate the correct
  amount of additional threat on all holy damage. There were some
  abilities, such as Retribution Aura, where this did not work
  correctly.
- Holy Shock - This ability now works with Divine Favor and
  Illumination.
- Holy Shield - Mana cost reduced approximately 15%. The effect now has
  a small bonus coefficient from spell damage items and effects.
- Eye for an Eye - This talent can now trigger while you are mounted.
- Blessing of Sacrifice - This Blessing can no longer be used to
  prevent the death of a target that is supposed to die for a spell
  effect (e.g.: Sacrifice, Demonic Sacrifice, Divine Intervention,
  Ritual of Doom).
- Seal of Command - Will now be able to proc when the Paladin is
  silenced.
- Improved Seal of Righteousness - Tooltip updated to reflect actual
  functionality. This talent increases Seal of Righteousness and
  Judgement of Righteousness by 3-15%.
- Lay on Hands - Range increased.
- Divine Intervention - Range increased.
- Holy Shield - Tooltip updated to reflect that damage caused by Holy
  Shield causes 20% additional threat. This has been active since 1.9,
  but was undocumented.
- All Greater Blessings now have increased range.
- Holy Shock - Mana cost reduced.
- Most creatures that were previously immune to Scorpid Sting are now
  also immune to the Paladin Talent Vindication.
- Fixed problem where occasionaly repeated casts of Consecration will
  not deal damage.
- If a paladin avoids damage with Divine Shield, Eye for an Eye will
  not react.
- Fixed stacking of paladin auras so they overlap, but only the best
  aura in a given category is in effect. 

Priests
- Due to significant talent changes, Priests will have all talent
  points refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent
  spell replacements have been significantly reduced.
- All racial priest spell replacements have had their training costs
  reduced.
- Prayer of Fortitude - Range and area of effect increased.
- Holy Fire - Is now available to all priests, starting at level 20.
- Mind Soothe - Is now instant cast.
- Shadowform - Now reduces all physical damage taken (melee and ranged),
  as the tooltip suggests.
- Feedback (Human) - Redesigned. The priest surrounds himself with
  anti-magic energy. Any successful spell cast against the priest will
  burn mana from the attacker and cause Shadow damage.
- Elune's Grace (Night Elf) - Now also increases chance to dodge.
  Ranged damage reduction increased, duration decreased, mana cost
  decreased, now has a cooldown.
- Shadowguard (Troll) - Is now instant cast. Updated tooltip to reflect
  that damage caused by Shadowguard causes no threat. This was
  previously the case, but was undocumented.
- Inner Fire - Redesigned. Now increases armor by a significant amount
  but has 20 charges. Each melee or ranged damage hit will remove a
  charge. Lasts 10 minutes, mana cost increased.
- Desperate Prayer (Dwarf/Human) - Cooldown reduced.
- Touch of Weakness (Undead) - Now a 10 min. buff on the caster that is
  triggered when they are struck in melee. The effect is otherwise the
  same. Mana cost decreased substantially.
- Hex of Weakness (Troll) - Now also applies a -20% healing modifier in
  addition to its normal effect. The healing debuff does not stack with
  the warrior's Mortal Strike ability, although the damage penalty now
  stacks with either Touch of Weakness or Curse of Weakness. Mana cost
  decreased substantially.
- Starshards (Night Elf) - This spell now works like Curse of Agony,
  with lower initial damage which increases as the duration continues.
  Mana cost dropped approximately 30% on all ranks. Ranks 1 and 2
  increased to 6 second duration. Damage increased approximately 17%.
- Lesser Heal - Mana cost dropped approximately 9%.
- Heal - Ranks 2, 3, and 4, cast time reduced to 3 seconds. Rank 1 mana
  cost dropped approximately 9%. Rank 2, 3, and 4 the healing amount
  has been reduced to generate the same amount of healing per cast time
  as before the cast time was reduced. Rank 2, 3, and 4, the mana cost
  was reduced to cost approximately 9% less mana per point of healing
  generated. The net effect on all ranks is that the healing per mana
  is 10% higher, the cast time is limited to 3 seconds, and the healing
  per second is unchanged. Note that spells with less than 3.5 second
  cast time will not receive the full bonus from plus healing items.
- Greater Heal - Cast time reduced to 3 seconds. Healing and Mana cost
  reduced so that the healing per second is unchanged, but the healing
  per mana is increased approximately 10%. Note that spells with less
  than 3.5 second cast time will not receive the full bonus from plus
  healing items.
- Vampiric Embrace - Damage resisted by the target will no longer be
  counted as damage caused for the purposes of the healing from this
  ability.
- Power Word: Shield - This spell will now get a small bonus from items
  and effects which increase your healing.
- Holy Nova - Self cooldown on this spell removed. Mana cost increased. 
- Devouring Plague - No longer keeps players in combat for its duration.

Rogues
- Slice and Dice - This ability can no longer be blocked, dodged, or
  parried, and cannot miss. If you attempt to use this ability when
  your target is dead, you will now receive an error message instead of
  displaying the spell animations.
- Sap - Lightning Shield will no longer break Stealth when the Sap is
  resisted.
- Remorseless Attacks - This ability will no longer trigger off killing
  creatures that do not award experience, or players that do not award
  honor.
- Distract - This ability will no longer trigger a Shaman's Lightning
  Shield (which caused the Rogue to lose stealth).
- Blade Flurry - The additional attacks generated by this ability will
  now properly take into account the armor of the second target.
- Blind - Now considered a ranged attack. It can no longer be dodged
  or parried.
- Creatures will no longer get one hit on a rogue before cheap shot
  takes effect. 

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - Bonfires and other environmental damage sources
  will no longer consume charges of the Lightning Shield. Warsong Gulch
  power-ups will also no longer consume the charges.
- Grounding Totem - This totem will no longer absorb the procs from:
  Frostguard, Annihilator, Bludgeon of the Grinning Dog, The Chief's
  Enforcer, The Judge's Gavel, Hammer of the Titans, Blackblade of
  Shahram, and Bonereaver's Edge. Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Flurry - Your haste will now last only the intended next 3 swings.
- Healing Wave - Mana cost on all ranks reduced approximately 9%.
- Shaman can now use equipped items while in Ghost Wolf form.
- Shaman will no longer stop falling when they use a Sentry Totem. 

Warlocks
- Curse of Agony - The damage over time component of this curse will
  now only trigger periodic triggerable procs.
- Shadowburn - The debuff which produces the soul shard upon death is
  now visble to the player and has a 5 sec duration. The Warlock will
  no longer sometimes receive two soul shards upon the victim's death.
  Targets which do not grant experience or honor will no longer produce
  shards.
- Rain of Fire - This ability will correctly trigger Pyroclasm again.
- Master Demonologist - Pets that were crowd controlled at the moment 
  of summon prevented you from receiving the buff from this talent.
  That has been fixed.
- Curse of Doom - This curse can no longer be cast on players who are
  under the control of a creature.
- Shadowburn - This spell will no longer apply its debuff to the
  creature when the spell is resisted. Targets which do not grant
  experience or honor will no longer produce shards.
- Curse of Weakness - Mana cost decreased substantially.
- Curse of Recklessness - Mana cost decreased.
- Creatures immune to fear are now also properly immune to the fear
  effect of Death Coil.
- Suffering (Voidwalker) - Radius increased, tooltip updated.
- Death Coil - The horrify component no longer affects undead creatures
  (they've seen it all before.)
- Siphon Life - No longer keeps players in combat for its duration.
- Improved Shadow Bolt - When a fire spell is reflected back at the
  caster, the caster will now correctly receive the Shadow
  Vulnerability effect. 

Warriors
- Execute - This ability will now work with Sweeping Strikes again. If
  the second victim is below 20% health, they will be hit with the full
  Execute amount. If the second victim is not below 20% health, they
  will be hit with normal melee swing damage.
- Whirlwind - When this ability is used with Sweeping Strikes, it will
  burn only one charge of Sweeping Strikes and will generate only one
  additional attack.
- Flurry - Ranks 1 through 4 of this talent will now activate correctly
  again.
- Retaliation - This ability will now function correctly at full melee
  range.
- Intimidating Shout - The cowering in fear effect will no longer be
  applied when the target resists this shout. In addition, this shout
  will now affect a maximum of 5 targets.
- Flurry - Your haste will now last only the intended next 3 swings.
- Sweeping Strikes - The additional attacks generated by this ability
  will now properly take into account the armor of the second target. 

Items
- Relics have been introduced to the game. These are class specific
  items for Druids, Paladins, and Shaman which can be equipped in the
  ranged slot. Currently there are a handful for each class which can
  be found scattered throughout Blackrock Depths, Blackrock Spire, Dire
  Maul, Scholomance, Stratholme, and The Temple of Ahn'Qiraj. We hope
  that you enjoy the first round of available relics and we will
  continue to add more in future patches.
- Many items in Blackrock Depths, Stratholme, Scholomance, and
  Blackrock Spire have been re-evaluated and adjusted to make them more
  appealing. In addition several new items have been added to all of
  these instances.
- The following item sets have had their set bonuses adjusted: Valor,
  Magister's, Lightforge, Shadowcraft, Dreadmist, Devout, Wildheart,
  Beaststalker, and Elements.
- The locations of some of the waist, wrist, and hand slot pieces of
  the dungeon armor sets have been moved from their old creatures,
  including the Lightforge Gauntlets and the Magister's Boots.
  Additional creature types can also drop many of the previously
  difficult to obtain armor pieces.
- All of the hand slot items in the dungeon armor sets are now bind on
  equip. The Belt of Valor is also now bind on equip.
- Death's Head Vestment and Wolfrunner Shoes now have stats more
  appropriate for cloth wearers.
- The value of Health per 5 seconds items was re-evaluated and has been
  changed to be the same as Mana per 5 items. As a result most items
  that restore Health per 5 seconds will see an increase in
  effectiveness.
- Biznicks 247x127 Accurascope now only affects ranged attacks, and
  Elemental Sharpening Stones no longer will affect ranged weaponry. The
  schematic for the Accurascope will now drop once again in the Molten
  Core.
- Item use can no longer trigger the effect on the Five Thunders set or
  the Darkmoon Card: Blue Dragon trinket.
- The On Use ability on the Blade of Eternal Darkness has been changed
  to an On Equip triggered effect with a chance to occur on any damage
  spell.
- The Netherwind Regalia Set's instant cast spell bonus will no longer
  be consumed if the mage is not facing his or her target. In addition,
  the instant cast bonus will not be consumed if Presence of Mind is
  active; only Presence of Mind's effect will be consumed.
- The Lightning Shield bonus on the Ten Storms set will now work the
  same way as all other Lightning Shield auras, including increased
  damage from bonus spell damage effects.
- The tooltip on Thunderfury has been clarified to indicate that only
  the primary target will receive the slowing effect. In addition, the
  two effects have been broken down into two different debuffs to
  prevent incorrect information from appearing in the debuff tooltip
  for secondary targets (previously secondary targets were told they
  were slowed when they were not actually slowed).
- Wrath of Cenarius will now trigger off all damaging spells.
- The charges from the Zandalarian Hero Charm will now be consumed by
  melee and ranged abilities and spells which do non-physical damage.
  This includes: Hammer of Wrath, Judgement of Righteousness, Seal of
  Command, Judgement of Command, Volley, and Arcane Shot. The trinket
  will also now burn charges from each casting of a damage over time
  spell, heal over time spell, and area aura spells such as Blizzard
  and Consecration. Only one charge will be burned per area spell cast,
  rather than multiple charges per target hit as was previously the
  case.
- The Panther Hide Bag from High Priestess Arlokk will no longer take
  the place of other items. Instead, this item will now sometimes drop
  in addition to the normal loot.
- The following items were found to be more powerful than intended and
  have been tuned to be more in line with their level: Satyr's Bow,
  Inventor's Focal Sword, and Scepter of the Unholy.
- Green Whelp Armor no longer affects targets above level 50 and the
  sleep duration was reduced to 10 seconds.
- Many Recipes now have different icons. Recipe icons should correspond
  with the item color; a green-glowing scroll is a green recipe, and a
  blue-glowing scroll is a blue recipe, for example. As a reminder,
  white recipes can be purchased from a vendor somewhere in the world,
  so players should not pay too much for them at the Auction House.
- The Phantom Blade's effect will now prevent players from trying to
  become stealthed or invisible.
- The Luffa and Talisman of Ephemeral Power now have sell prices.
- The Crystal Force, Crystal Ward, and Oil of Immolation effects now
  have effect tooltips.
- The Royal Sceptre of Vek'lor has the proper spell hit chance instead
  of melee hit chance.
- The damage dealt by Demonic Rune and Dark Rune will no longer be
  affected by the user's increased spell damage items.
- The target of the Demon Forged Breastplate's effect no longer has to
  be in front of the wearer.
- The spell hit effect on the Felheart Robes is now properly listed as
  an On Equip effect.
- The Augural Shroud and Spidertank Oilrag now have stats more
  appropriate for cloth wearers.
- The Skeletal Guardian and Skeletal Berserker now drop loot
  appropriate to their non-elite status.
- Flavor items from the Stratholme postbox are now listed as poor
  quality.
- The Black Diamond and Pristine Black Diamond now stack to 20, the
  same as other gems.
- The tooltip of the Seeping Willow's effect has been reworded for
  clarity.
- The Chromatic Boots and Boots of the Fallen Hero have had their stats
  adjusted.
- The duration of the Fetish of the Sand Reaver's effect has been
  increased, but the effect lowered.
- Many trinkets will now trigger a cooldown equal to the duration of
  their effects that will prevent simultaneous use of more than one of
  these trinkets. The Trinkets affected include the Zandalarian Hero
  Charm, Zandalarian Hero Badge, Zandalarian Hero Medallion, and most
  all the other Trinkets available from Zul'Gurub, Earthstrike, the
  Talisman of Ephemeral Power, and the level 50 class quest trinkets
  such as the Devilsaur Eye.
- Rumsey Rum gained from fishing is no longer soulbound.
- The Innkeeper in Everlook now sells Winter Kimchi.
- The drop rate for Essence of Air has been increased.
- The Diablo Stone now has a unique icon.
- Fixed typos in the names of Last Month's Mutton and Last Year's
  Mutton.
- The Expose Weakness effect of the Hunter's Dragonstalker set can no
  longer be resisted as a magical spell.
- The Dawn Treaders, Timbermaw Brawlers and Might of the Timbermaw now
  make sounds when moved in your inventory.
- The Zulian Stone Axe has the proper inventory icon again.
- Clarified the Hand of Justice and Force of Will tooltips to better
  describe their functionalities.
- The Bonereaver's Edge's triggered effect has been changed. Instead of
  lowering your victim's armor, it will cause you to ignore a portion
  of your victim's armor. Its triggering rate was substantially
  increased as well as the magnitude of the effect. In addition, the
  item now has 16 stamina. 
- Players will no longer be stuck in zoomed vision if they zone while
  using the Ornate Spyglass.
- Abyssal Cloth Pants were missing their Spell Critical bonus; this has
  been corrected.

Professions
- Players that unlearn Engineering or Leatherworking may now
  respecialize if they decide to relearn the professions.
- Blacksmithing
   The Statues in Ahn'Qiraj now drop chunks of obsidian that can be
   crafted by blacksmiths in to various types of armor. The Recipes
   come from both Cenarion Circle vendors as well as drops and other
   sources.
   The materials required to make the Gloves of the Dawn have been
   reduced.
   New high level World Drop epic recipes have been added for
   Hammersmiths, Swordsmiths and Armorsmiths. 
- Engineering
   The Alarm-o-Bot now pulses its detection every 7 seconds rather than
   every 30 seconds.
   Fused Wiring now stacks to 5.
   Rocket Clusters now require Solid Blasting Powder and Large Rocket
   Clusters require Dense Blasting Powder.
   Target Dummies now have a much shorter duration, but have
   significantly more health. They also have a general 3 minute
   cooldown on their use.
   The Goblin Mortar's maximum range has been increased from 20 yards
   to 40 yards. 
- Tailoring
   Mooncloth Bag recipe only requires a single mooncloth to make.
   Tailors can now make bags with up to 24 slots that can only hold
   enchanting materials or herbs. The recipes can mostly be found on
   vendors that sell enchanting materials or on vendors in Silithus. 
- Enchanting
   A new enchanting recipe that adds +25 Agility to two-handed weapons
   has been added to the Timbermaw Furbolgs that requires Friendly
   reputation.
   Enchant Gloves - Healing only requires a single Righteous Orb. 
- Leatherworking
   Many of the beast bosses in the game will now be skinnable for
   significantly more leather.
   There is now a fourth item in the Stormshroud Armor set: Stormshroud
   Gloves.
   The recipe for the Heavy Scorpid Vest is no longer soulbound.
   The Dreamscale Breastplate is now Bind on Equip.
   Red Dragonscales drop significantly more often off the dragonkin in
   the Wetlands.
   Golden Mantle of the Dawn no longer requires Righteous Orbs.
   The Dreamscale Breastplate only requires 6 Dreamscales instead of 12
   to make. 
- Alchemy
   There is now an Elixir of Greater Firepower recipe in the world. The
   Dark Iron Dwarves of the Searing Gorge hold the secret. 

Quests
- The Hexxer's Head is no longer a requirement for the Collection of
  Heads quest in Zul'Gurub.
- Realms that have Ahn'Qiraj open have access to a new questline at
  Cenarion Hold.
- The Deathly Usher in the Blasted Lands will now transport a whole
  group up to the Rise of the Defiler as long as one person is on the
  quest 'You Are Rakh'likh, Demon.'
- Fragments for the quest Uncovering the Past in the Wetlands are now
  easier to find.
- Magma Elementals in the Searing Gorge can now drop the Heart of Flame
  quest item.
- Dire Maul library book quests are no longer repeatable.
- Drop frequencies for Tactical Task Briefing V and Logistics Task
  Briefing XI have been improved considerably. These were needed for
  the Mark of Cenarius and the Mark of Remulos, their drop rates are
  now comparable to the other task briefings.  

Raids & Dungeons
- The Four Green Dragons will now spawn as originally intended. They
  should all now spawn at the same time everytime.
- Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj
   Ayamiss the Hunter now flies down from the air much earlier.
   Lieutenant General Andorov will now offer supplies if kept alive
   through the battle.
   Certain monsters have had their hitpoints reduced.
   Qiraji Scorpions and Qiraji Scarabs now yield a small amount of
   experience. 
- Temple of Ahn'Qiraj
   The Plague effect from Anubisath Defenders and Anubisath Sentinel's
   is no longer amplified by +damage gear.
   Spawn of Fankriss will now enrage if not dealt with in a timely
   manner.
   Fixed a bug that was causing Battleguard Sartura's low-health enrage
   to have very little effect.
   Removed the stacking acid from the Flesh Tentacles in the C'thun
   encounter.
   Digestive Acid now increases its effect over time during the C'thun
   encounter.
   Fixed a bug that could allow for the Digestive Acid debuff to be
   removed.
   Lowered the amount of knockback dealt by Giant Tentacles.
   Tentacles should no longer spawn on players who have just been
   knocked back by a previous tentacle. 
- Molten Core
   You no longer charge into the lava when charging Ragnaros.
- Dire Maul
   Magister Kalendris has been moved in to the middle of the hall.
   Guard Slip'kik's patrol path has been altered.
   Tendris Warpwood will now call upon any protectors still alive to
   aid him. 
- Blackrock Spire
   Some monsters were removed to reduce the time it takes to run the
   dungeon.
   Mother's Milk off Mother Smolderweb will now only affect players.
   Spire Spiderlings now have fewer hitpoints. 
- Blackrock Depths
   Lord Roccor is no longer a rare spawn. His patrol path was altered
   accordingly.
   Pick lock and Seaforium now work on the Shadowforge Gates Mechanism.
   The difficulty of the Lord Incendius and Ambassador Flamelash
   encounters has been increased.
   Marshal Windsor will now open the door to the supply room during the
   escort 'Jail Break,' instead of walking through it. 
- Stratholme
   Some of the undead that invade the Scarlet Bastion after Balnazzar's
   death have been removed to make exiting faster.
   Added new crates to Stratholme that only hold Stratholme Holy Water.
   The old crates still exist.
-Scholomance
   Skin of Shadow now has a chance to drop from creatures in the
   Scholomance. 
- Zul'Farrak
   The summoned zombies will now attack any player in the instance
   after their grave has been disturbed. 

User Interface
- The Reputation UI has gotten a significant overhaul:
   You can now click on a faction in the reputation pane to get
   additional details/options.
   You can display one of your reputations on your main display where
   your experience bar currently displays. If you are not level 60 it
   displays two thin bars - experience and reputation.
   You can mark any of your factions as "Inactive". These factions will
   be moved to the bottom of your reputation pane in a callout that is
   closed by default. 
- Your experience bar will no longer display when you are level 60. The
  primary benefit of this relates to the improvements to the Reputation
  systems.
- Shift-R will now reply to the last person that you sent a tell to
  rather than the last person who sent a tell to you.
- Purchasing Bank Slots now has a confirmation dialogue to prevent
  accidental purchase.
- All Set bonuses for a set now display even if you do not have all the
  required items for that set. The set bonuses that you do not have yet
  display in gray and also show in parenthesis the number of pieces of
  the set required for that bonus.
- You can now mouseover items in your mailbox and get item mouseover
  information without opening the mail.
- The raid option to "Show Castable Buffs" should now work correctly.
- If a /who search brings up few enough names that those names are
  displayed to the chat interface, those names will be right clickable
  for invite/whisper purposes.
- Fixed a bug that would prevent health and mana display in group or
  raid from updating properly.
- Fixed problem where character specific macros could be overwritten
  by account-wide macros.
- You are no longer able to modify the Blizzard XML and Lua files.
- Addons and macros may not call or hook functions that initiate
  movement.
- Addons can no longer use RegisterForSave().
- SpellStopCasting() requires input to work, like spell casting does.
- Toggling autocast for pet actions requires input to work, like
  commanding your pet does.
- New API Functions
   frame = CreateFrame("frameType" [,"name"] [, parent])  Dynamically
   create a new frame of the specified type
   font = CreateFont("name") -- Dynamically create a font object
   num = GetNumFrames() -- Get the current number of frames created
   nextFrame = EnumerateFrames(currentFrame) -- Get the Frame which
   follows currentFrame (in internal order, use currentFrame=nil for
   the first one)
   seterrorhandler(errfunc) -- Sets a new script error handler (a
   function taking error message as its argument)
   errfunc = geterrorhandler()
   version, buildnum, builddate = GetBuildInfo()
   MouselookStart()
   MouselookStop()
   mouselook = IsMouselooking() 
- New Object Methods (inherited by all fonts, frames, textures and
  fontstrings)
   type = Object:GetObjectType()
   isType = Object:IsObjectType("type") 
- New Font Object
   name = Font:GetName()
   a = Font:GetAlpha()
   Font:SetAlpha(a)
   font = Font:GetFontObject() -- Get the 'parent' of the Font.
   Font:SetFontObject(font or nil) -- Set the 'parent' of the Font.
   Font:CopyFontObject(font) -- Set this Font's attributes to be the
   same as those of font.
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = Font:GetFont()
   wasFound = Font:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags])  Returns
   1 if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not (the change
   will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = Font:GetTextColor()
   Font:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = Font:GetShadowColor()
   Font:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = Font:GetShadowOffset()
   Font:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
   Font:SetSpacing(spacing)
   spacing = Font:GetSpacing()
   Font:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
   Font:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM")
   justifyv = Font:GetJustifyV() 
- New LayoutFrame Methods (inherited by all frames, textures and
  fontstrings)
   x,y = LayoutFrame:GetCenter()
   x = LayoutFrame:GetLeft()
   x = LayoutFrame:GetRight()
   y = LayoutFrame:GetTop()
   y = LayoutFrame:GetBottom()
   width = LayoutFrame:GetWidth()
   LayoutFrame:SetWidth(width)
   height = LayoutFrame:GetHeight()
   LayoutFrame:SetHeight(height)
   numPoints = LayoutFrame:GetNumPoints()
   "point",relativeObject,"relativePoint",xOfs,yOfs =
   LayoutFrame:GetPoint(index)
   LayoutFrame:SetPoint("point" [, LayoutFrame] [, "relativePoint"]
   [, offsetX, offsetY])
   LayoutFrame:SetAllPoints(LayoutFrame)
   LayoutFrame:ClearAllPoints() 
- New Texture Methods
   parent = Texture:GetParent()
   Texture:SetParent(parent or "parent")
   layer = Texture:GetDrawLayer()
   Texture:SetDrawLayer("layer")
   blendMode = Texture:GetBlendMode()
   Texture:SetBlendMode("blendMode") -- blendMode is one of "DISABLE",
   "BLEND", "ALPHAKEY", "ADD", "MOD"
   r,g,b,a = Texture:GetVertexColor()
   isFound = Texture:SetTexture("path") -- Now returns 1 if the path
   was found, nil if not. 
- New FontString Methods
   parent = FontString:GetParent()
   FontString:SetParent(parent or "parent")
   layer = FontString:GetDrawLayer()
   FontString:SetDrawLayer("layer")
   font = FontString:GetFontObject()
   FontString:SetFontObject(font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = FontString:GetFont()
   wasFound = FontString:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags])
   -- Returns 1 if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not
  (the change will not occur).
  a = FontString:GetAlpha()
  r,g,b,a = FontString:GetTextColor()
  FontString:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
  r,g,b,a = FontString:GetShadowColor()
  FontString:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
  x,y = FontString:GetShadowOffset()
  FontString:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
  spacing = FontString:GetSpacing()
  FontString:SetSpacing(spacing)
  justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
  FontString:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
  justfiyv = FontString:GetJustifyV()
  FontString:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New methods for all Frames
   texture = Frame:CreateTexture(["name"] [,"layer"]) -- Create a new
   Texture object as a child of a frame.
   fontstring = Frame:CreateFontString(["name"] [,"layer"])  Create
   a new FontString object as a child of a frame.
   numRegions = Frame:GetNumRegions() -- Return the number of regions
   (Textures/FontStrings) attached to a frame.
   a, b, c, ... = Frame:GetRegions() -- Return the regions attached to
   a frame. 
- New methods for MessageFrames, ScrollingMessageFrames, and EditBoxes
   font = Frame:GetFontObject()
   Frame:SetFontObject(font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = Frame:GetFont()
   wasFound = Frame:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags]) 
   Returns true if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not (the
   change will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = Frame:GetTextColor()
   Frame:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = Frame:GetShadowColor()
   Frame:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = Frame:GetShadowOffset()
   Frame:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
   spacing = Frame:GetSpacing()
   Frame:SetSpacing(spacing)
   justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
   Frame:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justfiyv = Frame:GetJustifyV()
   Frame:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New SimpleHTML Methods ("header" is "H1" "H2" or "H3")
   font = SimpleHTML:GetFontObject(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetFontObject(["header",] font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = SimpleHTML:GetFont(["header"])
   wasFound = SimpleHTML:SetFont(["header",] "fontFile", fontHeight
   [, flags]) -- Returns true if specified font was valid, and nil if
   it was not (the change will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = SimpleHTML:GetTextColor(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetTextColor(["header",] r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = SimpleHTML:GetShadowColor(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetShadowColor(["header",] r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = SimpleHTML:GetShadowOffset(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetShadowOffset(["header",] x, y)
   spacing = SimpleHTML:GetSpacing(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetSpacing(["header",] spacing)
   justifyh = SimpleHTML:GetJustifyH(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetJustifyH(["header",] "LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justfiyv = SimpleHTML:GetJustifyV(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetJustifyV(["header",] "TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New Button Methods
   font = Button:GetTextFontObject()
   Button:SetTextFontObject(font or nil)
   font = Button:GetDisabledFontObject()
   Button:SetDisabledFontObject(font or nil)
   font = Button:GetHighlightFontObject()
   Button:SetHighlightFontObject(font or nil)
   Button:SetNormalTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject)  Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetPushedTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject)  Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetDisabledTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject)  Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetHighlightTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject)  Added
   Texture Object option. 
- New Slider Methods
   orientation = Slider:GetOrientation() -- Return slider orientation
   Slider:SetOrientation("orientation") -- Set slider orientation
   ("HORIZONTAL","VERTICAL") 
- New StatusBar Methods
   orientation = StatusBar:GetOrientation() -- Return bar orientation
   StatusBar:SetOrientation("orientation") -- Set bar orientation 
   ("HORIZONTAL","VERTICAL")
   filename = StatusBar:GetStatusBarTexture()
   r, g, b, a = StatusBar:GetStatusBarColor() 
- New ScrollingMessageFrame Methods
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFading(isFading) -- Renamed from 
   ScrollingMessageFrame:EnableFading()
   isFading = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetFading()
   duration = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetFadeDuration() -- Get time it
   takes for lines to fade once they start fading.
   visTime = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetTimeVisible() -- Get time it
   takes before a line starts fading. 
- New Minimap Methods
   Minimap:SetMaskTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   mask
   Minimap:SetIconTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   POI icons
   Minimap:SetBlipTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   tracking blips  

World Environment
- New flight paths have been added between:
   Ironforge and Light's Hope Chapel
   Stonetalon Peak and Astranaar
   Talendris Point and Everlook
   Theramore and Talendris Point
   Sepulcher and Tarren Mill 
- Stable master added to Grom'gol.
- Arcane Aberrations will no longer attack hunters who cast Flare
  nearby.
- Incendosaurs in the Searing Gorge should now spawn much faster.
- Riding Instructors Velma Warnam and Xar'Ti will now let Tauren know
  in advance that they cannot be taught to ride Skeletal Mounts and
  Raptors.

Mac
- Fixed a bug which could cause the sky to be improperly rendered when
  the UI overlay was shut off in full screen.
- Improved the Mac sound engine to handle "multiple simultaneous buff"
  events without excessive audible distortion, such as the Warchief's
  Blessing in Orgrimmar.
- Fixed a bug which could cause doodads in the Dwarven District to be
  incorrectly fogged.
- Fixed a bug which could cause terrain to be improperly rendered if
  "Enable All Shader Effects" was on but "Terrain Highlights" was off.
- Fixed a bug which would sometimes cause a selection circle under a
  character to be drawn as a double image.
- Improved smoothness of mouse input for camera turns ("mouselook").

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.4 (2006-02-09)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- A new Guild Recruitment channel has been added.  This channel will be
  on by default.
- Fixed a bug that could cause players to appear to be porting around
  in a small area.

Mac
- Addresses a timing accuracy issue on Intel-Mac systems that affected
  the perceived speed and/or progress of transports and other moving
  objects in the world; PowerPC-Mac systems were not affected.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.3 (2006-02-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Love is in the Air!
  Are you looking for love?  All of Azeroth soon will be!  As winter
  draws to a close the races are starting to seek that special someone.
  Be on the lookout for amorous individuals!  Put on that special
  perfume or cologne, express your love, and receive gifts in return! 
  Prepare yourself... love will soon be in the air!


Mac
- Added native support for Intel-powered Macs such as the iMac (Core
  Duo) and MacBook Pro. World of Warcraft is now a Universal
  Application.  Be advised that the minimum supported MacOS X version
  has been changed to 10.3.9; World of Warcraft version 1.9.3 and later
  will not launch on older revisions of MacOS X.


Battlegrounds
- The default graveyards in Alterac Valley for each side were moved
  further up the tunnels away from the battlegroud exit. This should
  prevent accidentally leaving the battleground.


Paladin
- Eye for an Eye - This talent will now still do damage when the
  paladin is stunned. In addition, if the critical hit kills the
  paladin, damage will still be dealt to the spellcaster.
- Greater Blessing of Sanctuary - Paladins with Righteous Fury will now
  generate extra threat correctly when this Blessing procs.


Rogue
- Deadly Poison V - The charges were inadvertently not increased with
  the new rank of the ability. Increased from 105 to 120 charges.
- Slice and Dice - This ability should no longer miss.


Warrior
- Shield Block - This aura will now correctly be removed when the
  charges are all consumed. However, it is still possible when fighting
  multiple opponents to get extra blocks due to technical restrictions.


Items
- Arcanist Gloves were not receiving the intended spell damage bonus;
  this has been corrected.
- The Stamina and Intellect on Kezan's Unstoppable Taint were
  inadvertently flipped; this has been corrected.
- The Enigma's Answer and Stormcaller's Wrath effects now have tooltips.
- The mana regeneration effect from food no longer causes threat.
- Quicksand Waders are now Bind on Pickup.
- The Slime-coated Leggings now have their proper nature resistance.
- Prophetic Aura, Mageblood Potion, Wizard Oils, and the Mana
  Regeneration bracer enchant no longer generate threat for the wearer,
  and should also provide the increased mana regeneration on normal
  ticks instead of every 5 seconds.
- The Ancient Hakkari Manslayer has the proper icon again.


Professions
- The Engineering schematic for the Tranquil Mechanical Yeti now
  requires a Cured Rugged Hide rather than Ice Thistle E'ko so that
  both Horde and Alliance Engineers can make the recipe.
- Stormshroud Gloves are now Bind on Equip.


Quests & Reputation
- Grammar fixed for gossip associated with the quest "Trial of the Sea
  Lion" in Moonglade.
- Fixed a bug with the quest "Glyphed Oaken Branch" that was having the
  quest become available sooner than it should have.
- The reputation modifier of Squire Leoren Mal'derath has been reduced.
- Zandalar Tribe reputation rewards for killing mobs in ZulGurub have
  been increased.
- Winterfall Spirit Beads and Deadwood Headdress Feathers now stack in
  quantities of 250.


Raid & Dungeons
- Various bugs have been rectified in the Ahn'Qiraj dungeons.
  Molten Core
  * It should now be very difficult to remain out of combat while
    fighting the bosses in Molten Core.
  Zul'Gurub
  * A small number of spawns have been removed from Zul'Gurub to allow 
    for a slightly faster clearing time.
  * Increased cooldown on Poison Bolt Volley of High Priestess Mar'li.
  * Slightly reduced the melee damage of High Priestess Mar'li.
  * The vengance effect gained by the death of the raptor Ohgan during
    the Bloodlord Mandokir fight has been increased in power.
  * Reduced the overall damage of High Priest Thekal.
  * Slowed the rate at which the panthers spawn during the High
    Priestess Arlokk fight.
  * Hakkar:
     Melee damage reduced.
     Cause Insanity should now correctly target Hakkar's current target,
     rather than closest.
     Cause Insanity will no longer remove all threat gained.
     Reduced the damage dealt by Poisonous Blood Siphon.
     Increased cooldown on Blood Siphon.
     Gained an Enrage ability after 10 minutes in combat.
     No longer has the Slow ability.
     Corrupted Blood now deals direct damage with a following damage
     over time effect and no longer spreads to others in the raid.
     Fixed a bug that was causing Corrupted Blood to target the current
     target rather than the intended random target.
  * Increased duration of Poisonous Cloud emitted by Sons of Hakkar.
  * Shades of Jin'do are now considered Undead.
- Slightly increased the movement of Lethon's Spirit Shades.
- Reduced the duration of Lethon's Draw Spirit from 7 seconds to 5
  seconds.
- Fixed a bug that would cause Lethon's Draw Spirit to spawn two
  spirits per person instead of one.
- King Gordok can no longer be seperated from Cho'Rush the Observer in
  Dire Maul.


World Environment
- Royal Dreadguards, Undercity Guardians, and Ironforge Guards will now
  detect enemy players at the same distance as the other cities' guards.
- Fixed a bug that would cause you to dismount in certain areas within
  the Undercity.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.2 (2006-01-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Characters should no longer appear to "pop" around terrain.  Movement
  should be smoother once again.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.1 (2006-01-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Various disconnection issues have been fixed.

Druid
- Heart of the Wild - Previously, when shifting to Bear Form or Dire
  Bear Form, this talent would cause your current health to increase by
  the same amount as your max health. Now it will cause your percentage
  of max health to be the same before and after the shift, as well as
  shifting back to humanoid form. As a result, shifting in and out of
  these forms will no longer cause an increase in current health.
- Druids with the Symbol of Unending Energy will now be properly
  awarded 30 energy if their finishing move is dodged, parried, blocked,
  or missed.
- Feral Charge  Should no longer desync characters from the server
  when charging from land to water.

Paladin
- Silence effects should now work properly with Improved Concentration
  Aura.

Priest
- Mind Control - Now functions properly.  Previously, the person who
  was charmed did not appear to be moving on their screen or any other
  local clients.

Warrior
- Charge  Should no longer desync characters from the server when
  charging from land to water.

Items
- Elixir of Poison Resistance now removes up to 4 poison effects up to
  level 60. The immunity effect has been removed.
- The Winter Veil Disguise Kit now has a short casting time and can
  only be used when not in combat.

Quests & Reputation
- Chapter 2 of the Twilight Lexicon for the quest "The Twilight Lexicon"
  should again drop from the appropriate NPC.
- The "Field Duty" quest for Alliance should now work properly.

User Interface
- Using the search feature "Usable Items" no longer causes all pages on
  the auction house after the first to appear blank.
- Various errors occurring during use of the default user interface
  have been fixed.
- The /split command has been disabled.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.0 (2006-01-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj
  The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj will house two massive, unique dungeons -- the
  Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj, a 20-man raid dungeon, and the Temple of 
  Ahn'Qiraj, a 40-man raid dungeon. As players delve deeper into the 
  mysteries of Ahn'Qiraj, they will discover revelations of the 
  Silithid infestation and their shadowy masters, the Qiraji. Players 
  will have to complete a world event of massive proportions before 
  they can open the Gates of Ahn'Qiraj on their realm.
  ***During the public test of Ahn'Qiraj, the world event to open the 
  gates will be accelerated to allow testing of the dungeon content.*** 

Linked Auction Houses
  Players will now be able to buy and sell goods with greater 
  effectiveness using the Linked Auction House system. Auction 
  Houses in Orgrimmar, Undercity, and Thunder Bluff will now share the 
  same pool of Horde player-created auctions, and Alliance players will 
  find the same to be true when visiting Ironforge, Stormwind City, and 
  Darnassus Auction Houses. This system has been expanded to support 
  the neutral Auction Houses as well. Tanaris, Everlook, and Booty Bay 
  will all be linked for players of both factions to access. In 
  addition, the "Looking for Group" and "Trade" channels have been 
  unified among the corresponding cities, meaning, for example, that 
  you can trade your goods or look for groups in Ironforge while in 
  Stormwind. 

Multiple Battlegrounds Queues
  Players will be able to enter multiple battleground queues. No longer 
  must you make the hard decision of which queue to join -- when queued 
  for all three, you can join the first one available or hold out for 
  that particular battleground which you've really got your heart set 
  on. Should a queue open while you are already in a battleground, you 
  may switch to the new battle or remain in the current on.

Soul Shard Bags
  Tailors now can make soul bags to hold soul shards. The smallest is a 
  20-slot bag, the recipe for which can be purchased in Gadgetzan. The 
  recipe for a larger bag can be found in Scholomance, and one for an 
  even larger bag can be found in Molten Core. In the main UI, these 
  soul bags will display how many shards they contain. So long as the 
  soul bags have room, any soul shards a warlock creates will 
  automatically go into the bag. 

Raid Calendar System
  The raid-lockout system has undergone a significant change. The new 
  system will have all instances reset at a certain server time, 
  regardless of when you were actually saved to the instance. The reset 
  schedule is as follows:
  Molten Core: Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly maintenance.
  Blackwing Lair: Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly maintenance
  Onyxia: Every 5 Days
  Zul'Gurub: Every 3 Days
  Temple of AhnQiraj (40-man): Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly 
  maintenance
  Ruins of AhnQiraj (20-man): Every 3 Days
  All resets will occur during off-hours, when the least amount of 
  raids are active. 

Important Note for Mac OS X Users
  The minimum supported Mac OS X revision for WoW will be changed in a 
  post-1.9.0 patch, from 10.3.5 to 10.3.9. If you are running 10.3.5 - 
  10.3.8 and need to get the free update, you can use Software Update 
  or you can go to the Apple website. This change will make 
  it easier for us to release future updates to the game, for example 
  to support upcoming Mac models based on Intel processors. 

General
- All Disorient effects have been renamed Incapacitate effects. This 
  includes Gouge, Sap, etc.
- All Confusion effects have been renamed Disorient effects. This 
  includes Blind, Scatter Shot, etc.
- Food and Drink are now in separate categories, so you can only have 
  one food effect and one drink effect on you at a time. The only 
  effect should be that foods that used to stack with each other (you 
  could have two food effects on you at once) no longer will stack.
- On-next-swing abilities will no longer cause multiple weapon procs 
  on a single swing. 
- It is now possible to change the games priority and processor
  affinity through Task Manager.

PvP & Battlegrounds
- The Defiler's Talisman and Talisman of Arathor are now available at 
  Friendly reputation.
- Level 48, 38, and 28 versions of the Defiler's Talisman and Talisman 
  of Arathor have been added.
- Two new rewards have been added for reaching Friendly reputation 
  level with the Silverwing Sentinel and Warsong Outrider factions.
- New caster ring reward added for reaching Exalted status with the 
  Stormpike or Frostwolf factions.
- When a player leaves a battleground before it concludes, they will 
  be unable to re-enter any battleground queue for 15 minutes.
- Several civilian NPCs, who previously would assist non-civilians, 
  will no longer do so. 
- A bug has been fixed with the Warsong Gulch reward vendors that were 
  allowing items achieved at reaching Friendly reputation to be 
  purchased at lower reputation levels.
- Reputation rewards for the PvP Battlegrounds have been adjusted:
  - Superior Health Draughts, Superior Mana Draughts, and Battleground-
    specific bandages are now available uniformly at Friendly 
    reputation.
  - Major Health Draughts and Major Mana Draughts are now available
    uniformly at Honored reputation.
  - Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin now offer Battleground-specific
    rations at Friendly reputation.

Druids
- Bear and Dire Bear form - Effects that lower armor will now lower 
  armor by a percentage of the druid's full armor, rather than just 
  base (caster form) armor. However, Enrage will still only remove 75% 
  of base armor.
- Omen of Clarity - Special attacks will no longer consume their own 
  clearcasting state. All melee attacks will now be able to trigger the 
  clearcasting state.
- Nature's Grasp - This spell can now trigger from special melee 
  attacks. It will no longer be possible to cast Entangling Roots at no 
  mana cost immediately after Nature's Grasp procs.
- Nature's Grace - The Nature's Grace buff will now appear on the 
  player upon completion of casting, before the travel time of the 
  spell. So, Wrath crits will now benefit the casting time of the next
  spell cast.
- Insect Swarm - New icon.
- Improved Starfire - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Omen of Clarity - This spell now works correctly with Bash, Rip, 
  Ferocious Bite, and Demoralizing Roar, granting a decrease in the 
  cost of the ability. Ferocious Bite will still use the entire energy 
  bar to generate additional damage. 
- Cat Form - Feline Swiftness will now regain its speed increase when
  moving from indoors to outdoors.
- Cure Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Remove Curse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Abolish Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.

Hunters
- Arcane Shot  Will no longer trigger two Judgement of Wisdom effects
  with one shot.
- Aspect of the Pack and Aspect of the Cheetah - Periodic damage will 
  no longer trigger the Dazed effect.
- Aspect of the Wild - Radius increased. Tooltip updated to display 
  radius.
- Improved Concussive Shot - The stun effect's duration no longer 
  diminishes or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells 
  (e.g. Cheap Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Tame Beast - The hunter will now turn to face the target during the 
  taming process.
- Bestial Wrath - Damage bonus reduced, duration increased.  In 
  addition, while enraged, the beast will be immune to Disorient 
  effects (e.g. Scatter Shot, Blind, etc.)
- Unleashed Fury - Damage bonus increased.
- Pet Changes
  + Base pet speed is now standardized for all pets, including legacy 
    pets. Pet speed can still be modified through the talent Bestial 
    Swiftness and pet abilities such as Charge, Dash, etc. 
  + All hunter pets will now always deal Physical damage for their base 
    attack. 
  + Turtles can now eat raw and cooked fish.
  + Turtles can now learn Shell Shield, allowing them to reduce all 
    damage taken by 50% for 10 sec.
  + Hunters can now tame Sons of Hakkar. Sons of Hakkar are in the Wind 
    Serpent family and will know Lightning Breath (Rank 6).
  + Boars can now learn Charge, an ability that allows them to charge 
    to an enemy, immobilize that enemy for 1 second, and add a large 
    amount of Attack Power to the boar's next attack.
  + Gorillas can now learn Thunderstomp, an ability that causes high 
    threat area Nature damage. 

Mages
- Impact - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Netherwind Regalia - The 8-piece set bonus will now proc immediately 
  upon completion of casting the spell, before travel time on the 
  spell. This will allow the proc to affect the next spell cast as 
  intended.
- Arcane Concentration - Blizzard will now be able to gain a 
  Clearcasting state from this talent.
- Arcane Missles - Will now be able to trigger procs based on dealing
  damage.
- Remove Lesser Curse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
- Blast Wave - Will now show spell data in the talent page. 
- Conjure Water (Rank 7)  Will now create ten waters instead of four.
- Pyroblast  Damage bonus from + spell damage items increased.

Paladins
- Due to significant talent changes, all Paladins' talent points will 
  be refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent 
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Paladins can now learn Greater Blessings for the following spells:
  + Blessing of Might
  + Blessing of Wisdom
  + Blessing of Kings
  + Blessing of Sanctuary
  + Blessing of Salvation 
  Greater Blessings will cast the associated blessing on all raid 
  members that share the same class as the target. For example, if you 
  cast Greater Blessing of Might on a warrior in your raid, all 
  warriors in the raid party will receive Blessing of Might from you. 
  Additionally, Greater Blessings have an increased duration of 15 
  minutes. These blessings require twice as much mana as the single 
  target version, as well as a reagent. Paladins can purchase these new 
  Greater Blessing spells from their class trainers.
- Seals and Judgements - Added or increased damage per level so that 
  these spells keep pace between replacements.
- Judgements - Judgements that place a debuff on their victim will now 
  all have their duration refreshed when the judging paladin strikes 
  the victim with his or her melee swings. All these debuffs have had 
  their duration decreased to 10 seconds. In addition, Judgements that 
  place debuffs can no longer be resisted.
- Seal of Righteousness - Now does holy damage on every swing. It can 
  now proc correctly as well. The Judgement effect has been renamed 
  "Judgement of Righteousness" to differentiate it from the Seal damage 
  in the combat log.
- Judgement of the Crusader - The holy damage bonus has been decreased 
  as part of rebalancing paladin damage (which is still increased 
  overall).
- Seal of Command - The proc will occur more often, but will only do 
  70% of weapon-swing damage.
- Judgement of Command - Instead of placing a debuff on the victim, 
  this spell now does immediate damage. If the victim is not stunned, 
  they only take 50% of the total damage. The damage on this Judgement 
  was increased significantly.
- Judgement of Wisdom - Arcane Shot will no longer cause this to proc 
  twice on one shot. Channeling spells can now trigger this proc as 
  well.
- Vengeance - Special ability critical hits can now trigger Vengeance.
- Judgement of Righteousness - The damage of this judgement was 
  increased significantly. This judgement can now trigger procs.  The
  bonus from spell damage items has been increased slightly.
- Holy Shock - Now heals friendly targets and damages enemy targets. 
  Mana cost reduced. Bonus from spell damage and healing items 
  increased.
- All Seals and Judgements have had their bonus coefficient from plus
  spell damage re-evaluated. Some holy damage effects had no 
  coefficient before and now have a coefficient.
- Vengeance - Clarified the tooltip to indicate procs will not trigger 
  Vengeance.
- Summon Warhorse - Mana cost reduced.
- Summon Charger - Mana cost reduced.
- Consecration - No longer displays a debuff icon on targets in the 
  area of effect.
- Updated Aura tooltips to be more clear (include radius, fix 
  grammatical errors etc...).
- Judgement - Range increased, cooldown decreased, mana cost decreased. 
  Using Judgement will now initiate melee combat.
- Exorcism - Now usable on Demon targets in addition to Undead targets.
- Holy Wrath - Now usable on Demon targets in addition to Undead 
  targets.
- Seal of Justice - Mana cost slightly increased. The stun effect's 
  duration no longer diminishes or is diminished by controlled stun 
  abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, 
  etc).
- Seal of Righteousness - The damage bonus from +Holy damage has been
  reevaluated on this seal.  Since the damage is delivered on every 
  swing, the bonus has been reduced.  However, paladins attacking with
  faster weapons should see an overall increase in the bonus from 
  + spell damage gear.  Mana Cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Command - Damage bonus from +Holy damage items slightly 
  increased.
- Seal of the Crusader - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Fury - The seal and judgement have been removed and replaced 
  with a new self-buff, Righteous Fury, which will increase threat from 
  Holy damage.
- Seal of Light - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Wisdom - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Command - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Hammer of Wrath - Missile speed of the flying hammer increased.
- Divine Protection, Divine Shield and Blessing of Protection - Targets
  of these spells will now receive the "Forbearance" effect, 
  preventing another of these three spells from being applied to that 
  target for one minute.
- New Spell: Righteous Fury (level 16) - Increases the threat generated 
  by the Paladin's Holy attacks by 60%. Lasts 30 minutes.
- Blessing of Sanctuary - Now causes Holy damage to the attacker when 
  the blessed target blocks an attack in addition to the current 
  effect. 
- Hammer of Justice - Is now a Protection spell.
- Repentance - Is now considered an Incapacitate effect.
- Blessing of Wisdom - Mana regeneration over time will no longer
  generate threat.
- Purify - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cleanse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.

Priests
- Martyrdom - This talent will now trigger on melee special abilities 
  as well as on melee swings. The tooltip has been clarified to 
  indicate this ability only works on melee strikes.
- Dispel Magic - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Abolish Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Mind Blast - Threat raised on ranks 7, 8, and 9. Incorrect data had 
  been entered in those spells, resulting in less threat generated than 
  designed.
- Blackout - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 

Rogues
- Sword Specialization - Special attacks such as Sinister Strike, and 
  Mortal Strike now properly trigger the chance to gain an extra 
  attack.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc...). 
- Slice and Dice - This finisher can now trigger the Ruthlessness
  talent.

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - This spell will now proc when the shaman is struck 
  by elemental attacks.
- Stormstrike - Earthbind and Stoneclaw totems will no longer use up
  charges of Stormstrike.
- New Spell - Tranquil Air Totem. Creates a totem that reduces the 
  threat caused by nearby party members by 20%. 
- Grounding Totem - This totem will no longer absorb the spell from 
  Crippling Poison or Deadly Poison.
- Purge - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Poison Cleansing Totem - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
- Disease Cleansing Totem - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
  
Warlocks
- Searing Pain  Reduced mana cost by 10%.
- Infernal and Doomguard - Increased armor 10% and damage 30% on both 
  pets.
- Soul Link - This spell can no longer be partially dispelled off the 
  warlock. In addition, Soul Link can no longer be used on non-demon pets.
- Hellfire - Victims of Hellfire are now able to resist properly. 
  Warlocks continue (as designed) to be unable to resist their own 
  damage.
- Curse of Shadow and Curse of the Elements - These curses can no 
  longer cause resistance to become negative. To compensate, both 
  curses now increases the damage taken from the appropriate schools by 
  a percentage.
- Summon Felsteed - Mana cost reduced.
- Summon Dreadsteed - Mana cost reduced.
- Pyroclasm - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 

Warriors
- Execute - Improved Execute and other discounts to the Execute ability 
  will now correctly convert the resulting extra rage into damage.
- Retaliation - This ability will no longer lose charges when the 
  attacker is behind the warrior.
- Sword Specialization - Special attacks such as Sinister Strike, and 
  Mortal Strike now properly trigger the chance to gain an extra 
  attack.
- Sweeping Strikes - Whirlwind and Retaliation will now correctly 
  consume the charges from Sweeping Strikes.
- Bloodthirst - The damage component has been increased to 45% of 
  attack power.
- Enrage - The talent will now grant 5/10/15/20/25% extra damage when 
  enraged, instead of 8/16/24/33/40%.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc).
- Improved Revenge - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or 
  is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 
- Unbridled Wrath - Only normal melee swings will trigger the rage
  generation from this ability.

Racial Traits
- Troll Racial Abilities
  Troll Berserking
   + New functionality: Berserking is now an activated ability that 
     increases your melee, ranged, and casting speed by 10% to 30%. 
     The value scales upwards towards 30% depending how low your health
     is when you activate the ability.
   + Now lasts 10 seconds.
   + Now requires a small amount of mana, rage, or energy (depending on
     your class) to activate.
   + No longer requires being struck by a critical to activate.
   + Now has a three minute cooldown, up from two minutes.
   + No longer has a global cooldown.
  Throwing Mastery
   + Trolls now also receive a bonus to Bow weapons in addition to 
     Throwing weapons. 
- Orc Racial Abilities
  Blood Fury
   + Now applies a healing effectiveness debuff on the user instead of 
     the attack power penalty. The healing debuff is applied 
     immediately upon using the ability. 
  Hardiness
   + Resistance is now applied to just Stun mechanics. 
- Gnome Racial Abilities
  Escape Artist
   + Casting time lowered. 
- Dwarven Racial Abilities
  Stoneform
   + No longer snares the user.
   + Armor bonus increased.
   + Duration lowered. 

Items
- All of the Tier 2 Class Armor sets have been updated with new art.
- The following weapons and shields have been updated with new art: 
  Perdition's Blade, Obsidian Edged Blade, Gutgore Ripper, Core Hound 
  Tooth, Aurastone Hammer, Drillborer Disk, Staff of Dominance.
- Many of the pieces from the Tier 2 Armor sets have received updated 
  statistics. The armor sets with the most extensive changes include 
  the Netherwind, Nemesis, and Judgement sets. Other sets received 
  fewer revisions, or none at all.
- Slimes have been latching on to more valuable items and they will now 
  be dropping better loot than they used to, including coin drops and 
  special bags.
- Drop rates of Darkmoon Cards 2-8 (Portals 2-8, etc..) have been 
  reduced. Ace drop rates have been increased.
- The drop rate of Shadowcat Hides has been increased.
- The Lifestealing enchantment now does shadow damage rather than 
  fire damage.
- Manna Biscuits now have two separate spell effects so they stack
  correctly with other food and water.
- Well Fed buffs from special foods will no longer stack with each 
  other.
- The enchanter-made wands are now correctly flagged as Bind on Equip.
- Silithus air elementals have a slightly increased chance of dropping 
  essence of air
- Stormshroud Shoulders have been fixed to be a superior item and have 
  had the stamina on them slightly increased as well.
- Whistle of the Black War Raptor was changed to Bind on Acquire.
- The Runed Stygian Belt is no longer Unique.
- Bandages will now appears as "Consumable" in the auction house.
- Jaedenar humanoids and demons in Felwood and Winterfall Furbolgs in 
  Winterspring can now drop Runecloth.
- Winterfall Furbolgs will not drop Winterfall Firewater as often.
- The Seal of Wrynn, Nogg's Gold Ring, and Talvash's Gold Ring have 
  been improved to be superior items.
- All Giants in Azshara now drop cash and items appropriate for an elite 
  creature.
- The attack speed slowing effect from Thunderfury has been reduced, 
  and no longer stacks with other such effects such as Thunderclap. The 
  rate at which the weapon procs has also been lowered.
- The Reckless Charge ability of the Goblin Rocket Helmet and Horned 
  Viking Helmet is now considered an incapacitating effect instead of a
  sleep effect.
- Flamewaker Legplates and Sash of Whispered Secrets improved to have 
  the proper stats of an epic item.
- Broken Silithid Chitin is now marked as a poor item.
- Albino Crocscale Boots now has the appropriate geometry attached.
- Darkshore Grouper now has an appropriate sound when moved in your 
  inventory.
- The effect of the Freezing Band is now considered a Freeze effect.
- The Force Reactive Disk's and Cloak of Fire's effects will no longer 
  gain a benefit from effects that increase spell damage.
- The Insightful Hood and Southsea Head Bucket will now cover hair 
  properly.
- The proc ability of the Halberd of Smiting can no longer cause 
  another proc.
- The Glimmering Mithril Insignia will no longer make a player immune 
  to Death Coil.
- The Goblin Mortar's stun effect now has a description.
- Six Demon Bag tooltip changed to note that the target must be in 
  front of the caster.
- The Fiery War Axe is now in fact, Fiery.
- The Abyssal Plate Gauntlets are now Bind on Equip.
- Items with the Frost Blast ability will now deal the correct damage 
  listed.
- Gauntlets of Shining Light is now spelled correctly.
- The Pure Elementium Band now has a sell price.
- The Mendicant's Slippers now have the proper amount of stamina for 
  the level of the item.
- Arcanist's Bindings had more resistances than proper for the item, 
  and these were removed.
- Alcor's Sunrazor is now Bind on Equip.
- Transforming Thunderstrike and Shadowstrike will no longer consume 
  additional copies of the item that might be in the inventory.
- Added a note to the tooltip for the Healing and Mana Draughts 
  available in Alterac Valley that informs the player they are only 
  usable in Alterac Valley.
- Incorrect amounts of abilities such as Attack Power, Increased Fire 
  Damage, or Increased Healing Damage were being applied to all random 
  item property world drops. Two handed weapons such as Staves had much 
  lower amounts of these abilities, while ranged and one handed weapons 
  had too much. All further drops of these items will have the correct 
  amounts, but previously dropped items will not be affected by this 
  change.
- The Shardtooth Meat quest item can no longer be fed to a Hunter pet.
- Blue Dragon Card - This trinket will no longer proc from non-combat 
  abilities.
- Shield Spikes - Shield Spike damage will no longer occur on ranged 
  blocks.
- The Gnomish Death Rays backfire will now affect players even if they
  have an immunity effect, such as Divine Shield.
- The Zandalarian shoulder enchantments now properly display their
  effects on the item enchanted.

Professions
- An Alchemy recipe to Transmute Heart of Fire into three Elemental 
  Fires has been added at the Friendly level of the Thorium Brotherhood.
- Epic items that are level 51 and above will now disenchant into a 
  Nexus Crystal. Also items that normally disenchant into Large 
  Brilliant Shards have a very small chance of disenchanting into a 
  Nexus Crystal. New more powerful enchanting recipes that require 
  these Crystals can be found in the new Ahn'Qiraj content.
- Enchanters can now turn some of their dusts and shards into magical 
  oils. These oils when applied to weapons add a temporary bonus to 
  magical damage or mana regeneration that stacks with permanent 
  enchantments. The lower levels of these recipes are found on normal 
  enchanting vendors. The higher level versions are found on special 
  vendors and are rewards for high Zandalar faction.
- The Enchanting Trainer in Cenarion Hold in Silithus sells some of 
  both new types of enchanting formulae.
- Schools of fish have appeared around the world that can be fished 
  from a few times before being fished out. These schools tend to 
  contain valuable fish types such as Oily Blackmouth or Firefin 
  Snapper. In some places, wreckage can be fished from for even better 
  rewards.
- The cooking trainers around the world sell the recipe for Sagefish 
  and Greater Sagefish. These two fish types can be found in schools in 
  inland areas and provide health and mana regeneration as well as 
  additional mana regeneration for 15 minutes after eating.
- Engineers with skill 250 or greater, who have completed Umi 
  Rumplesnicker's 'Are We There Yeti?' quest line, should seek her out 
  again in Everlook. 

Quests & Reputation
- The Timbermaw Furbolgs have received a faction revamp!
   + The Timbermaw Furbolg faction is now named "Timbermaw Hold."
   + Certain named Deadwood and Winterfall Furbolgs are now giving more 
     positive Timbermaw Hold faction when killed.
   + Old quests have been revised, and several new quests involving the 
     Timbermaw Furbolgs have been added. 
- Reputation caps for killing monsters now happen at the end of a 
  level, rather than in the middle of it. For example: if reputation 
  gains for killing a monster were previously capped at the middle of 
  the range for Friendly on a monster, then they are now capped at the 
  end of Friendly.
- Reputation is now its own category in the chat window; you can change 
  the color of reputation gains and losses as reported in chat without 
  it affecting other miscellaneous information.
- All Alliance versions of the quest "Heeding the Call" now give 
  uniform reputation increases.
- Warlock quests that teach imp summoning now all uniformly award 
  reputation increases for respective racial factions.
- Spells now may have a casting requirement of current reputation with 
  a faction.
- All versions of the quests "A Donation of Wool," "A Donation of 
  Silk," and "A Donation of Mageweave" have had the level of the quest 
  raised so that higher level characters performing them will be able 
  to receive the full reputation gain. The minimum level requirement 
  for the quests have not changed, though the amount of XP gained when 
  completing any of these quests will be different than from before. 
  Mageweave will continue to give more XP than Silk, and Silk more XP 
  than Wool.
- The quests "Morrowgrain to Darnassus" and "Morrowgrain to Thunder 
  Bluff" now give increased reputation per turn-in to be in line with
  the amount given with "Morrowgrain to Feathermoon Stronghold."
- The Alliance version of the quest "Centaur Bounty" now gives 
  Stormwind faction for completion.
- The Horde version of the quest "Centaur Bounty" now gives the same 
  amount of XP as the Alliance version (which means it was increased).
- The quest "Zaeldarr the Outcast" now gives an Argent Dawn reputation 
  increase upon completion.
- A bug with the reputation system has been fixed that was preventing 
  some awards to Horde and Alliance factions from being shared properly 
  amongst all member factions of the team.
- The quest "Ledger from Tanaris" now gives a reputation reward for 
  Gadgetzan upon completion.
- The quest "Supplies for Nethergarde" now has an additional reward of 
  increased Stormwind reputation.
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "All Along the Watchtower".
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "Lessons Anew".
- A kobold has been moved away from Piznik so that it won't keep 
  evading in the quest "Gerenzos Orders".
- Fixed typos in the quest "Signets of the Zandalar".
- Fixed typos in the quest "Rotten Eggs".
- The cleansed plants of Felwood have been modified:
   + There is no longer a gossip option to interact with them; simply 
     right click on the plant to receive your buff or fruits.
   + The amount of items you get from plants has been adjusted.
   + A corrupted whipper root plant was bugged to require one fewer 
     plant salves than intended to be cleansed; its now fixed to 
     require the salves just like the other whipper roots. 
- Fixed two bugs where Pratt McGrubben in Feathermoon Stronghold was 
  not offering to re-teach Wild Leather Shoulders and where he was not 
  properly teaching Wild Leather Leggings.
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "Power over Poison".
- The level of the quest "Piercing the Veil" has been increased from 3 
  to 4, bringing it in line with similar quests.
- Sayges Dark Fortune of Damage buff now only increases damage from a 
  randomly determined range of 1-10%.
- A coin reward has been added to the quest "Worth Its Weight in Gold".
- Vahlarriel in the second part of the quest series "Vahlarriel's 
  Search" now has something to say when returning with the pendant.
- The level for the quest "Parts for Kravel" has been raised to bring 
  it in line with the other quests of the Kravel series.
- You now need fewer Scorpashi Venoms to complete the second quest of 
  the "Reagents for Reclaimers Inc." quest series.
- Baron Revilgaz now should be a little more vociferous.
- Fixed a bug with the Horde Hallows End quest "Ruined Kegs" that 
  allowed the Alliance to interact with the keg.
- Hallows End Pumpkin Treats should no longer be on the same timer as 
  combat-oriented potions. Really.
- Xabraxxis Demon Bag will now last slightly longer in the world once 
  he is killed (3 minutes, up from 2).
- The reward for the quest "An Audience with the King," "Seal of 
  Wrynn" - has been improved.
- The reward for the quest "Gnome Improvement," "Talvashs Gold Ring" 
  has been improved. XP and reputation rewards for the quest have also 
  been increased.
- The reward for the quest "Noggs Ring Redo," "Noggs Gold Ring" has 
  been improved. XP and reputation rewards for the quest have also 
  been increased.
- The Horde Quest "Material Assistance" should no longer auto-launch an 
  incorrect (deprecated) quest.
- The quest "Galen's Escape" now gives an additional coin reward upon 
  completion, as well as an increase of reputation amongst the players 
  factional team. 

Raids & Dungeons
- Noxxion in Maraudon now has the correct immunities.
- Noxxion is now social and will bring friends if pulled past other 
  creatures.
- Abyssal Templars are no longer marked as Humanoid.
- Twilight Stonecallers in Silithus should now aggro properly.
- Gordok Reavers and Warlocks now have a slightly larger radius for 
  detection and "call for help."
- Drop rate of Dark Runes in Scholomance has been reduced.
- The Altar of the Deeps in Blackfathom Deeps will now give players 
  the Blessing of the Deeps.
- The abomination event in Stratholme was been reworked with new 
  technology to insure there are no more premature resets. 

User Interface
- The Guild UI has been significantly improved. Now when you click on
  a guild member, it will open up a side panel with all the information 
  about that member including their note and officer's note.
- There is now a Guild Info panel for each guild. That panel allows a 
  guild to enter long term information and messages about the guild 
  that is too long for the message of the day. The guildmaster can use 
  the guild control panel to determine who has access to change the 
  text in this panel.
- Options have been added that allow raiders to not display their base 
  party UI when the Raid UI is up. Also, you can choose to only display 
  effects on players that you can dispel or ones you can cast. This is 
  all in the interface options pane.
- A "tip of the day" feature has been added to loading screens within 
  the game.
- Under Video Options there is now a slider to control the detail of 
  spell effects. Lower settings can help to improve performance.
- Auction buyers/sellers will now receive a detailed invoice of the 
  transaction.
- The casting bar has been brightened back up, it was appearing darker 
  than intended due to a bug.
- A new option has been added to Interface options, "Sticky Targeting." 
  When this is turned on, you will not deselect your current target when 
  you click on empty space.
- A new interface option, "Detailed Loot Information" has been added 
  that defaults to 'on.' If you turn it off you will only see the roll 
  and Need/Greed option of the player who won the item rather than 
  information for every player.
- Open bags that are in your bank will now have a bluish background to 
  them to allow easy differentiation between inventory bags and bank 
  bags.
- The Friends List and Guild UI will now display when a person is AFK.
- It is now possible to use the dressing room UI to model items that 
  are being rolled for in the Group Lood/Need Before Greed Popup window.
- Add-ons, Macros and Keybindings can now be saved on a per character 
  basis, so you can have different characters load different add-ons/
  macros/keybindings.
- The Ignore command will now ignore emotes.
- The Interface Options Pane has been split up into a normal panel 
  and an advanced panel.
- In the initial loading screen there will be a tip displayed. This 
  can be turned off from the interface options menu.
- Any time an item is distributed using the "Master Looter" system and 
  the item is quality epic or above there will be a confirmation 
  dialogue to confirm that the item is going to the correct person.
- Key bindings can now be saved either globally or on a per character 
  basis.
- Add-ons can now be saved either globally or on a per character basis.
- In addition to the set of macros shared by all characters, each 
  character gets an additional 18 macros available to them.
- Added the ability to link enchanting recipes in chat.
- Optimized UI event handling in raid situations.
- Optimized UI layout engine to improve loading times.
- The game will no longer accidentally load UI files that are dropped 
  loose into the top level installation directory.
- The EquipCursorItem() script function uses slot numbers consistent 
  with the rest of the inventory functions. Any macros which use this 
  function should be updated by adding one to the slot number used 
  currently.
- New TOC entry for dynamically loadable add-ons: ## LoadWith: Addon1, 
  Addon2, etc. - Indicates that your add-on should be automatically 
  loaded after ANY of the add-ons specified on the LoadWith line are 
  loaded.
- The 8th return value from GetItemInfo() is no longer be localized, 
  instead is one of a number of INVTYPE_* tokens.
- A new 9th return value from GetItemInfo() is the inventory icon for
  the item.
- debugprofilestop() will now return sub-milisecond (floating point) 
  values.
- Added Texture:GetTexture() which returns the filename (without 
  extension) of the file for the texture.
- Added FontString:SetNonSpaceWrap(true|false)
- Added Frame:GetFrameType() which returns the type of a frame.
- Added Frame:IsFrameType("typeName") which returns true if the frame 
  is of type typeName, or a subtype of typeName.
- New 8-param form of Texture:SetTexCoord(ULx, ULy, LLx, LLy, URx, URy, 
  LRx, LRy)
- Parent frame scales are cumulative instead of overrides.
- Textures and FontStrings now have IsVisible() and IsShown() functions 
  with the same semantics as the frame functions of the same name.
- Added Button:SetFont(), which works like the equivalent FontString
  function.
- Added ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFont(), which works like the 
  equivalent FontString function.
- Special honor awards show up in the combat log.
- Druids can preview different weapons in the dressing room while in 
  moonkin form.
- Emotes show up in the chat log file.
- Combat messages no longer show up in the chat log file.
- Resurrection spells will return pets to life with the appropriate 
  amount of health and mana.
- Talent improvements to buffs will persist across instance boundaries 
  and logging out. 

World Environment
- Elven NPCs in Scholomance will now animate properly.
- Players should no longer be able to walk on steep terrain.
- Players should no longer be able to move slowly through some locked 
  doors and gates.
- Nida Winterhoof in Thunder Bluff now sells Flowers for the sensitive 
  Horde player.
- The Short John Mithril's chest in Stranglethorn Arena will now 
  display an effect when it is being opened so its harder to open the 
  chest unnoticed.
- Night Elf food vendors have changed their supplies slightly.
- Chests in Maraudon have been disabled for good.
- In Wetlands, Bluegill Murlocs will now be more plentiful and several 
  other Bluegill camps have been thinned.
- All mount sounds, when standing and jumping, are now in place.
- Tauren males now use their off-hand attack animation.
- The Zeppelins propeller from Under City should now animate properly.
- Jesper and Spoops should no longer be lingering around once the
  Hallows End holiday period is over.
- The Moonglade Wardens have received an increase in hit points and
  damage dealt, bringing them in line with their Steamwheedle Cartel
  bruiser counterparts.
- Flight Paths
   + New flight paths added between Ironforge and Chillwind Point. 
     Also, between Chillwind Point and Light's Hope Chapel.
   + Fixed a problem with the flight paths between The Crossroads in 
     The Barrens and Zoram'gar Outpost in Ashenvale.
   + Fixed the flight over Yojamba Isle from Booty Bay in Stranglethorn
     to Sentinel Hill in Westfall. 

Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug that caused Crimson Templar to be doing much more damage
  with it's fireball attack than intended.
- Fixed a bug that could cause Guard Slip'kik to move while trapped in 
  ice.
- Fixed a bug that caused Azure Templar, Earthen Templar, and Hoary 
  Templar to be resistant to Fire.
- Fixed a bug that would cause Time Lapse to cause hate reduction even 
  if the target resisted the effect.
- Fixed a bug that allowed pets to be targeted by "Wild Polymorph" 
  during the Nefarian encounter. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.4 (2005-12-06)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds
- Battles must now last at least ten minutes after the start of the 
  battle in order for the losing team to receive a Mark of Honor. 

World
- New quests for the Feast of Winter Veil have been added! See your 
  Smokywood Pastures customer service representative in Ironforge and
  Orgrimmar for more details!
- The level of many of last year's Feast of Winter Veil quests have
  been adjusted so that reputation rewards are available in their full
  amount for players of all levels able to do them.
- Fixed a bug with both versions of the quest "A Smokywood Pastures' 
  Thank You!" that was sending mail out immediately rather than on the
  intended delay.
- In a startling discovery, Mistletoe sold on last year's vendors is 
  now named "Fake Mistletoe". A Smokywood Pastures spokesman was quoted
  as saying, "Sorry, no refunds."
- Some of the Southsea Dock Workers that were working under the boat 
  should now be much more accessible to players.
- Andre Firebeard no longer has a chance of dropping a Wastewander
  Water Pouch.
- All OOX Distress Beacons are now multi-drop; everyone in a group
  should be able to receive one if it drops.
- Fixed a bug with Oglethorpe Obnoticus' gossip where he was being much
  more familiar with strangers than he should have been. 

General
- Various preparations added to the client for Patch 1.9.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.3 (2005-11-08)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New Blizzard Launcher 

 A new launch utility has been created to enhance your entry into World
 of Warcraft! The Blizzard Launcher will provide up-to-date news and
 important event- and support-related updates. In some regions, the
 Blizzard Launcher also scans for Trojan viruses and third party cheat 
 programs and notifies you if it has located any on your machine. In 
 addition to providing you with the benefits of additional anti-virus 
 protection, the scan that the launcher conducts represents another 
 security measure to protect your World of Warcraft account information
 and gameplay experience. For further details, please go to 
 http://www.blizzard.com/support/wow/?id=aww01907p1. 

General
- The AddOn button should now properly show on the character selection
  screen for players using custom interfaces.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.2 (2005-10-26)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs
- Fixed a crash in the German client.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.1 (2005-10-25)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds
- Players can now turn in their old Battleground victory tokens, such 
  as the Arathi Resource Crate, for the new Marks of Honor implemented
  in 1.8. These exchange quests are available on the new Horde
  Warbringers and Alliance Brigadier Generals, respectively.
- Certain geometry exploits in Arathi Basin have been fixed. 

Items
- The tooltip on the Lightforged Blade has been updated to correctly
  show its minimum level requirement of 47 and its Bind on Acquire
  status. 

User Interface
- Fonts should once again display properly.
- Fixed bug preventing UI scripting error messages from wrapping.
- Fixed per-character saved variables for non-English character names.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.0 (2005-10-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Disturbance at the Great Trees
  Something is amiss in the Emerald Dream. Immense dragons with the 
  shimmering emerald scales of the Green Dragonflight have been sighted 
  guarding the portals at the Great Trees... but these once-noble 
  creatures crawl with a new, strange menace, not the peace for which 
  Ysera is known. Bring many allies should you dare to confront them; 
  their powers are formidable and they will not hesitate to crush any 
  who draw near. 

The Stirring of the Silithid
  The arid sands of Silithus are shifting. Something is awakening 
  beyond the wall to the south... Aid the Druids of the Cenarion Circle 
  as they delve into the mysteries of the desert. Seek answers behind 
  the Twilight Hammer's presence. Discover more about the alien 
  creatures known as the Silithid as you explore their hives. Many 
  new endeavors await the high-level adventurer! 

Hallow's End
  When the decorations of Hallow's End light up Azeroth's cities, you 
  know there's mischief afoot! Seek special vendors in Orgrimmar or 
  Ironforge and get your hands on treats! Aid a sick orphan in a little 
  trick-or-treating! Deathcaller Yanka, attending the Forsaken's 
  Wickerman Festival, and Sergeant Hartman of Southshore are seeking 
  your aid in keeping the enemy out of their holiday affairs -- are 
  you up to the challenge? 

General
- Instant Attacks
   The mechanics of most instant melee attacks have been modified to 
   improve item balance. Previously, instant melee attacks did damage 
   based on the damage range of the weapon, plus a bonus for the 
   player's attack power. This bonus was then multiplied by the speed 
   of the weapon. As a result, slow weapons did more damage than was 
   intended, and fast weapons were considered inferior by most players. 
   We have changed the way the attack power bonus is calculated for 
   instant attacks. This change does NOT affect attack power 
   calculations for normal melee attacks. Instead of multiplying by the 
   speed of the weapon, the attack power bonus is now multiplied by a 
   fixed number pulled from the following table:
    + Two-handed weapons: 3.3
    + Daggers: 1.7
    + All other one-handed weapons: 2.4
   As a direct result of this, many weapons have shifted position in 
   their relative power. In particular, many Epic (purple) quality 
   items are now more powerful than slower Superior (blue) weapons.
   This change was not made to reduce the power of instant attacks, but 
   to correct the relative imbalance of weapon itemization. At a given 
   level requirement, epic quality weapons should always be more 
   powerful than superior quality weapons.
   Please also note that all normal weapon swings will be completely 
   unaffected by this change. The following abilities are affected by 
   the design change: Sinister Strike, Ambush, Backstab, Whirlwind, 
   Mortal Strike, and Overpower.
- The cost per point of durability to repair plate, chain, and leather 
  items has been reduced to be equal to the cost of repairing cloth items 
  of the same quality.
- You can now repurchase up to 12 items that you have sold to a vendor. 
  There is now a buyback tab on all merchants that you can select to 
  repurchase the last 12 items you sold since you last logged in. When 
  your character leaves the game or zones to a different area, this 
  list of items will be cleared, so if you have accidentally sold 
  something, dont wait to buy it back. Buy it back immediately.
- Perception (Human Racial) is now usable while stealthed.
- Guardians and pets in aggressive mode no longer attack civilians.
- There is now a spell effect when you increase your reputation to a 
  new level.
- Channeled spells that are cancelled by movement can no longer be cast 
  while moving.
- Pets no longer break off attacks when their target is affected by 
  Warlock Fear.
- The "Knockout" mechanic has been renamed "Disorient" and all tooltips 
  that referenced this mechanic should be updated. 

PvP
- Honor System
   The percentage of players that may reach ranks 6 through 14 has been 
   increased.
   Lower-level players should advance in the Honor System more quickly 
   than they had previously (although this change does not affect the 
   highest ranks they can achieve).
- Battlegrounds
   Each Battleground has an individual turn-in quest associated with 
   its related victory/loss condition. Upon completion of a 
   Battleground, the winning side will be awarded three Marks of Honor 
   while the losing side will be awarded one Mark of Honor. Three Marks 
   of Honor may be turned in to the associated questgiver for Honor 
   Points and faction increase. Should players complete this turn-in 
   quest, they will find that the bonus Honor Points for completion are 
   twice that of normal turn-in conditions (individual).
   Players of levels 10 - 19 will now be able to participate in the 
   battle for Warsong Gulch.
   Alterac Valley has received an overhaul:
    + In order to keep teams in Alterac Valley more numerically 
      balanced, players will now enter Alterac Valley on a one-for-one 
      basis (i.e. if there are 30 players in the battleground for each 
      side with 10 players in the Alliance queue and 2 players in the 
      Horde queue, only two players from each team will be added, 
      bringing the total to 32 per side).
    + The minimum number of players required to start a battle in 
      Alterac Valley has been lowered to 20 (the maximum is still 40).
    + Points for completing the map and winning have been slightly 
      decreased.
    + Graveyards and graveyard capture points are now at different 
      locations. The banners players must interact with in order to 
      capture a graveyard have been distanced from each other somewhat 
      in order to alleviate "graveyard zerging" and make graveyards 
      more meaningful to both defense and offense.
    + Several terrain changes were made to fix some geometry exploits 
      as well as to adjust for the new graveyard mechanic.
    + Iceblood Graveyard has been fortified.
    + The Frostwolf Relief Hut now has appropriate guards.
    + A great avalanche has closed off both the eastern and western 
      segments of Alterac Valley. This has displaced the Syndicate, the 
      Wildpaw Gnolls, and many of the Winterax Trolls.
    + Due to the avalanche, Korrak the Bloodrager and a small band of 
      surviving Trolls have made the Snowfall Graveyard their new home. 
      Players will find that Snowfall is now under Korrak's control and 
      they must defeat Korrak and his Troll guards if they wish to take 
      Snowfall.
    + The quests Korrak the Bloodrager (Alliance), Korrak the 
      Everliving (Alliance), The Legend of Korrak (Horde), and The 
      Return of Korrak (Horde) have been removed from the game. The 
      rewards for the initial quest involving Korrak have been moved 
      and can be acquired by completing the quest associated with 
      winning a match in Alterac Valley. We realize that some players 
      may have had the Korrak quest and never completed it. These 
      players may have already completed the quest for killing the 
      General and thus might not be able to benefit from the rewards 
      from the previous quest line. We have opted to add an extra quest 
      step at the end of the General kill quests to reward players that 
      fall under such conditions.
    + A new item has been added as one of the reward choices for the 
      quests Hero of the Stormpike and Hero of the Frostwolf.
    + NPC difficulty has been scaled down. All NPCs have had their 
      power reduced by 15-30%.
    + There is now a portcullis at the end of each of the entrance 
      tunnels inside Alterac Valley. They will rise two minutes into 
      the battle. 
- The PvP Tier2 Alliance and Horde Cloth armor sets have new updated 
  textures.
- Hunter traps no longer affect opposing players when the hunter is not 
  flagged for PvP. 

Druids
- Due to significant talent changes, talent points for Druids have been 
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent 
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Hurricane - No longer a talent. Now available to all Druids at 
  level 40. Damage and Mana cost increased on all ranks. Spell is now 
  cast on a targeted area up to 30 yards away and affected by Natures 
  Reach. Multiple Druids casting Hurricane will no longer stack the 
  slowdown effect. Radius of effect decreased slightly.
- Remove Curse - Updated tooltip to reflect that it's usable on 
  friendly targets only.
- Shapeshifting - Fixed a bug where the Chilled effect caused by Ice 
  Armor/Frost Armor was not removed properly when shapeshifting.
- Swipe - Self cooldown removed.
- Tranquility - Cooldown reduced to 5 minutes. Mana cost reduced by 25%.
- Cat Form - The attack power bonus from the base cat form will now 
  calculate correctly on zoning or logging in.

Hunters
- Counterattack - Now properly sets its cooldown.
- Throw - Use of this ability will no longer cause a global cooldown 
  with all other abilities.
- Auto-shot is now cancelled when you die.
- Added Lightning Breath pet ability for Wind Serpents. This ability 
  instantly hits a single target for Nature damage at medium range. 

Mages
- Arcane Missiles - Should now properly report the correct "out of 
  range" indicator on the action bar. 

Paladins
- Judgement of Light and Judgement of Wisdom will now benefit players 
  that are immune to Holy effects (e.g. Divine Shield). 

Priests
- Psychic Scream - Updated tooltip to reflect that damage caused to the 
  feared target may break the effect. Included radius in tooltip.
- Devouring Plague (Undead) - Will now properly consume the Inner Focus 
  effect when cast.
- Shadowguard (Troll) - Tooltip updated to reflect actual functionality.
- Elune's Grace (Night Elf) - New icon. 

Rogues
- Vanish - Fixed a bug where the Chilled effect caused by Ice 
  Armor/Frost Armor was not removed properly when vanishing.
- Parry - Minimum level to train this ability has been lowered to 12.
- Shoot Bow/Crossbow/Gun - Fixed a bug where these abilities could be 
  used faster than intended.
- Throw - Use of this ability will now only cause a cooldown with Shoot 
  abilities.
- Ambush - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Backstab - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Riposte - Now properly sets its cooldown.
- Sinister Strike - Now uses normalized attack power. 

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - Tooltip updated to reflect actual functionality.
- Ghost Wolf - Will now correctly have its cast time reduced by 
  Nature's Swiftness. 

Warlocks
- Death Coil - Cooldown reduced, mana cost increased, and now causes a 
  short Fear effect that is not diminished.
- Corruption - Duration reduced and damage per tick increased. Total 
  damage over duration approximately identical.
- Curse of Agony - Duration reduced to 24 seconds and damage per tick 
  increased. Total damage over duration approximately identical.
- Conflagrate - Conflagrate will now correctly remove Immolate rank 4 
  from its victim when cast.
- Bane - Now reduces casting time of the Soul Fire spell in addition 
  to Immolate and Shadow Bolt.
- Intensity - Now reduces chance to be interrupted during cast time of 
  Rain of Fire, Hellfire and Soul Fire spells.
- Pyroclasm - Now gives a chance to stun when Rain of Fire, Hellfire, 
  and Soul Fire spells damage the target.
- Soul Link - Percentage of damage split with pet has been reduced.
- Soul Link - Is now a spell cast on your pet that gives an aura to 
  both you and the pet. This aura increases all damage caused by you 
  and your pet by 3% and splits 30% of all damage taken by the caster 
  to the pet. The aura will last as long as the pet is active, and the 
  pet must be the target of a dispel effect in order to dispel this 
  ability.
- Summon Felhunter - Has a new, unique sound effect.
- Lesser Invisibility (Succubus) - Tooltip updated to reflect actual 
  functionality.
- Fixed a bug that would cause the Master Demonologist buff to be 
  removed if the pet was banished. 

Warriors
- Concussion Blow - Will now initiate combat when used.
- Shoot Bow/Crossbow/Gun - Fixed a bug where these abilities could be 
  used faster than intended.
- Throw - Use of this ability will now only cause a cooldown with Shoot 
  abilities.
- Mortal Strike - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Overpower - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Whirlwind - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Warriors can immediately Intercept after using trinkets to remove 
  immobilizing effects.
- Camera angles when using Charge should be improved. 

Items
- Items which provide +hit chance will now be allowed to counteract the 
  increased miss chance penalty of dual-wielding.
- The 5-piece set bonus for the Warrior's Wrath set now works with 
  Whirlwind.
- The 5-piece set bonus for the Druid's Stormrage set now properly 
  displays the reduction in casting time.
- The Cenarion Druid set bonus that improves Thorns damage now properly 
  works when Thorns is cast on other players.
- Anathema, Benediction, Thunderstrike, and Shadowstrike will now 
  remember the enchantments and durability data they possessed when 
  they transform.
- The ability to transform Rhok'delar and Lok'delar has been removed, 
  but you can talk to Vartrus the Ancient to receive the item you 
  currently don't possess.
- The Drape of Benediction had the statistics and effects of a Superior 
  quality item, but was an Epic item. The item has been improved to 
  have the proper Epic stats.
- The effect of the Admiral's Hat has been changed. You can now click 
  the Admiral's Hat to provide yourself with an aura that gives you and 
  your nearby party members a stamina increase. Taking the hat off will 
  remove the effect. The Headmaster's Charge item has also been changed 
  in a similar manner.
- The Thunderfury effect's spell damage will no longer be increased by 
  other item effects.
- Shard of the Flame and Shard of the Scale are now unique.
- The Resurgence Rod now heals more health over time.
- The Puncture Armor ability found on the Rivenspike, Bashguuder, 
  Digmaster 5000, and Vibroblade will no longer stack with Faerie Fire.
- Chromatic Gauntlets no longer has a listed Holy Resistance bonus, 
  since there is no actual Holy Resistance.
- Ring of Binding and Blade of Eternal Darkness now have appropriate 
  minimum levels.
- Demonic Rune has been changed to a Good (green) item so it will 
  display the bind on pickup dialogue when looted.
- Invulnerability will no longer protect you from a Demonic Rune.
- Deviate Fish changed to appear in the Trade Goods section of the 
  Auction House.
- Jadefire Pants texture fixed.
- The icon for Flash Powder has been changed.
- Shredder Operating Manual pages will no longer drop for the Alliance.
- Gurubashi Helm now properly hides long hair.
- The Sheen of Zanza has a tooltip typo fixed. 

Professions
- There are now alchemy labs that are needed by alchemists to make 
  flasks inside of Blackwing Lair.
- There is now Silithid armor that can be made by leatherworkers. The 
  recipes require Cenarion Circle faction to learn.
- Additional Tailoring and Blacksmithing recipes can be found in 
  encoded messages found on the members of the Twilight's Hammer in 
  Silithus.
- Two additional pieces of Dragonscale Leatherworking were added to the 
  Dragonscale Leatherworking Trainer.
- A Dragonscale Recipe has been added that requires killing the great 
  Green Dragons.
- The Blue, Green, and Black Dragonscale Leatherworking Armor pieces 
  are now parts of sets and have set bonuses so they should be 
  significantly more desirable.
- Green Dragonscale Armor has slightly reduced spirit and now has a 
  stamina component.
- Ironfeather Armor set bonus has been improved.
- Leatherworking item Murloc Scale Belt improved.
- Leatherworking pattern for Black Whelp Tunic added to vendor in 
  Redridge Mountains.
- All Wild Leather patterns for Leatherworking are now bind on acquire.
- All Wild Leather patterns for Leatherworking no longer have cash 
  value with vendors.
- Enchanter-made wands are now Good (green) quality and have had their 
  damage increased.
- The minimum level for the Artisan First Aid, Artisan Fishing, and 
  Artisan Cooking quest lines has been lowered to 35.
- Water Breathing potions will no longer be overwritten by Shaman and 
  Warlock Water Breathing spells if the potion has a longer duration.
- The Pet Healing effect of the Robe of the Void has been improved.
- Expert Alchemy requires 125 skill now instead of 100 skill.
- Free Action Potion text changed to clearly indicate that the potion 
  is not retroactive. No actual change was made other than the text.
- Gnomish Mind Control Cap - Is now subject to diminishing returns in 
  the Charm category.
- Blindweed has been increased in size, making it easier to see. 

Quests
- Added level 50 class quests for the Warrior, Shaman, Paladin, and 
  Warlock. Trainers in the major cities will let you know where to start
  your quest.
- A few new quests have been added in Tanaris. Head over to 
  Steamwheedle Port to see if you can help out.
- The Rin'ji's Secret quest line now has an ending and reward. If you 
  previously finished the Rin'ji's Secret quest out of The Hinterlands, 
  speak with Oran Snakewrithe in the Magic Quarter of the Undercity and 
  select the Oran's Gratitude quest.
- The following repeatable quests have had their levels increased to 
  55: Morrowgrain to Darnassus, Morrowgrain to Feathermoon Stronghold, 
  and Morrowgrain to Thunder Bluff. The net result of this change is 
  that level 56+ characters will notice an increased amount of 
  reputation when turning in Morrowgrain.
- The Thistlewood Axe will no longer be an available option as a quest 
  reward for the Webwood Venom quest.
- The level 30 Mage class quest rewards are now Superior (blue) quality. 

Raids and Dungeons
- Azuregos is now properly resistant to Frost damage.
- Zul'Gurub
   Reduced the damage of the Mad Servant's fireball
   Reduced the number of mad voidwalkers that are summoned from the 
   death of a Mad Servant from three to two.
   High Priestess Mar'li will now despawn her summoned spiders when 
   she returns from combat.
   Slowed the rate at which High Priestess Arlokk's panthers spawn
   Fixed a bug that would prevent High Priestess Jeklik from summoning 
   Frenzied Bloodseeker Bats.
   Fixed a bug that would allow Hakkar's Corrupted Blood ability to 
   target pets. 
- Blackwing Lair
   Razorgore now has the ability to summon players to him if he cannot 
   reach them for a time.
   If you are in front of Chromaggus and can hit him with spells, his 
   breath attack will hit you.
   There is no longer a one-hour time restriction on the Vaelastraz 
   the Corrupt encounter in Blackwing Lair.
   Fixed erratic taunt behavior for Ebonroc, Firemaw, and Flamegor.
   Fixed a bug that was causing Broodlord Lashlayer to do less damage 
   than intended with his Mortal Strike.
   Fixed a bug that caused the debuff "Burning Adrenaline" to be 
   removed if enough other debuffs were applied to the target. 
- Molten Core
   You now receive Core Leather when you skin Magmadar. 

User Interface

- To speed up game loading and reduce memory usage, several portions of 
  the UI have been converted to add-ons. These are completely 
  transparent to the player, but custom add-ons may need to be updated.
- You can now search for random suffixes such as "of the Monkey" in the 
  Auction House.
- Items that are in your action bar and are equipped will now display a 
  green border around them so it's easy to tell which of your action 
  bar items are equipped and therefore usable.
- The Reputation tab will now display on mouseover exactly how many 
  reputation points you need to attain the next reputation level with 
  that faction.
- When you gain reputation, the combat log message will now display 
  the numeric value of how much reputation you gained as well as the 
  previous relative message.
- There is now an option in the interface window to put a translucent 
  pane behind the portraits and health/mana of other party members for 
  easier visibility.
- When you place an auction up on the Auction House, the auctions tab 
  now displays your minimum bid and buyout price even if there are no 
  bids on the item.
- Players should no longer miss loot rolling messages when they're 
  outside of the immediate area. 

World Environment
- Latency upon entering crowded areas, such as Ironforge and Orgrimmar,  
  should be substantially reduced.
- The flight paths in Silithus have been moved from Valor's Rest to the 
  new Cenarion Hold. Characters that previously discovered the Valor's 
  Rest flight path will be treated as having discovered the Cenarion 
  Hold flight path.
- A neutral graveyard has been added to Silithus at Cenarion Hold. With 
  the addition of this graveyard, characters dying in Silithus will be 
  sent to whichever graveyard they are closer to when they die: Valor's 
  Rest or Cenarion Hold.
- Flamekin Imps (Ragers, Spitters and Sprites) in the Burning Steppes 
  now drop Elemental Fire.
- A new weapon merchant who can also repair durability damage on items 
  has moved in to Talonbranch Glade in Felwood.
- The Silithus area map has been modified and its scale has changed.
- Tyr's Hand now has the proper outdoor elite monster respawn time.
- Hearthglen now has the proper outdoor elite respawn time.
- A Graveyard has been added to Duskwood at Ravenhill Cemetery.
- A flight path has been added between Stormwind and Morgan's Vigil.
- Modifications were made to several areas of Azeroth so that the 
  undiscovered areas of the map are revealed easier.
- The Woodpaw Hills sub-area of Feralas now properly grants discovery 
  experience when you enter it for the first time.
- Brackenwall Village now has an arrow on the minimap that points to it 
  when you get within range.
- Sayges buffs at the Darkmoon Faire are now exclusive to one another.
- Due to popular demand the general goods vendor in Undercity now sells 
  Morning Glory Dew.
- All graveyards that needed adjustment were changed so that a 
  character's spirit comes into the world facing toward the Spirit 
  Healer.
- Fixed a bug that caused people to fall out of Blackwing Lair during 
  the Nefarian fight. 

Macs
- Enhanced the WoW Error Reporter to be able to intercept some types of 
  errors that were not being handled in 1.7.x.
- Eliminated the "r>=0, r=NaN" assertion frequently seen when utilizing 
  third party UI add-ons. 

Bug Fixes
- Fixed bug where your pet would be both in and out of combat 
  simultaneously when you were dismounted by pursuing creatures.
- You no longer become stuck and unable to loot if you try to open 
  clams and chests while you are a ghost.
- Fixed bug where players would get stuck in the falling animation 
  if they cast an instant-cast spell while jumping.
- Fixed a missile bug that could cause crashes in large battles such 
  as Molten Core, Blackwing Lair, and Arathi Basin.
- Fixed a bug with Win9x where if you started in Windowed mode, the 
  cursor would be stuck and could only be moved from side to side. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.7.1 (2005-09-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PvP
- Battlegrounds
   Altered geometry in Arathi Basin to prevent a possible exploit.
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.7.0 (2005-09-13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zul'Gurub
  Hidden within the jungles of Stranglethorn, an ancient Troll city
  full of peril has been uncovered. Do you have what it takes to delve
  into its mysteries with a band of hardy explorers? There's only one
  way to find out! Zul'Gurub is a high-level, 20-man raid instance with
  120 new rare and epic items to uncover. Adventure awaits! 

Arathi Basin
  Join the League of Arathor or the Forsaken Defilers as they battle
  for the precious resources stockpiled within the latest Battleground,
  Arathi Basin! Pitting 15 members of each faction against each other,
  the race is on to be the first to 2000 resources, capturing strategic
  landmarks around the Basin to increase your team's gain and cripple
  the enemy. With an all-new set of reputation-based rewards, there's
  never been a better time to join the war! 

Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza
  The Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza is a grand new event set along
  the coasts of Stranglethorn Vale. Early on the appointed day,
  friendly neighborhood goblins will visit Ironforge and Orgrimmar to
  inform aspiring anglers of the grand tournament and give
  instructions. At the appropriate time, the shout will ring out across
  Stranglethorn to bait your hooks and cast your lines! 

General
- The debuff limit has been increased to 16 (from 8).  In addition, the
  client will now display all 16 debuffs.
- Switching weapons in combat triggers a 1 second global cooldown for
  all abilities for rogues and a 1.5 second global cooldown for
  everyone else.
- Tauren can now ride wolves if they learn the wolfriding ability.
- Possessed units (e.g. Mind Control, Eyes of the Beast etc...) can now
  cancel combat mode by clearing your current target. In addition, the
  UI will have a gold border when the possessed unit is actively in
  combat mode with the target.
- Several stun spells and abilities that were previously unresistable
  can now be resisted as was always intended.
- Damage absorption no longer protects against falling, drowning, or
  fatigue damage.
- The targeting circles for area effect spells will no longer be
  cancelled when the caster moves.
- Absorbed and resisted environmental damage is now shown in the combat
  log.
- If an attack deals non-physical damage, the type of damage is now
  reported in the combat log.
- Fixed bug where you could kill someone in a duel with spell
  reflection.
- Auras and shapeshift forms can be cancelled while you are fleeing or
  confused.
- Fixed bug where you couldn't right click to attack a hunter who is
  feigning death.
- You can no longer unequip weapons while they are disarmed.
- Debuffs and area effect spells now use their actual cast level rather
  than effective cast level for calculating periodic resistance.
- Escape Artist works with Frost Nova and Frost Trap again.
- Damage absorption is now applied before damage splitting effects.
- Casting spells on your pets and summons will no longer cause guards
  in neutral towns to attack you.
- Fixed a bug where mana was being regenerated while channelling spells
  that use mana.
- Fixed a bug where the Dazed ability used by creatures when attacking
  targets from behind was countered/dispelled by some spells
  (e.g. Blessing of Freedom).
- Fixed a bug where area of effect periodic damage spells were being
  resisted more frequently than they should have been when casting
  lower level ranks of the spell (affected spells were Blizzard,
  Consecration,Explosive Trap, Flamestrike, Hurricane, Rain of Fire and
  Volley).
- Effects that make players immune to physical will no longer be immune
  to the "Recently Bandaged" effect from First Aid.
- Made general improvements to the camera.
- You are no longer able to kill players in duels with reflected DoT
  spells
- Escape Artist works with Frost Nova and Frost Trap.
- When you swap weapons in combat, you start your swing again, instead
  of continuing your last swing.
- Fixed bug where self-inflicted damage, like Poisonous Blood, wouldn't
  break stealth.
- When an attribute increasing effect (e.g. Arcane Intellect) is
  refreshed on a target, it will no longer reset the target's health or
  mana and then increase the total.
- Pets now switch to a new target if possible when their current target
  is polymorphed.
- Meeting Stones
   A number of miscellaneous improvements have been made that should
   allow for better group forming when using the meeting stones.
   You will no longer be kicked from the meeting stone queue when a
   player declines a group invite or when inviting someone that is 
   already in a group.
   You will now be informed that you have left the meeting stone queue
   when the group leader logs out.
   Tanks and Healers will now be immediately added to the group by the
   meeting stone when they are the 5th member of the group.
   You can now be added to a group by the meeting stone when that group
   contains characters that have disconnected. 

PvP
- Battlegrounds
   Battleground "holidays" have been added to Warsong Gulch, Alterac
   Valley and Arathi Basin. Holidays occur during most weekends,
   starting on Thursday night at midnight and continuing until Tuesday
   morning.
   During a holiday, emmissaries from that Battleground will be found
   in the major cities, and honor/faction rewards for performing
   objectives in that battleground are increased.
   Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin will now be level-banded as follows:
   20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60.
   System Messages have been added to Warsong Gulch to replace the
   heralds.
   Losers of Warsong Gulch are now given a "Ribbon of Sacrifice" which
   they may turn in to Captain Shatterspear or Sentinel Farsong for a
   faction reward.
   Offensive use of damage immunities no longer causes the flag to drop
   in Warsong Gulch.
   In the Battlegrounds, you will now automatically be resurrected by
   Spirit Healers unless you choose to decline.
   A bug that allowed ghost players to pass through the Warsong Gulch
   starting gate has been fixed.
   Alterac Valley now correctly rewards honor for owning graveyards at
   the end of the game.
   Characters that use the Battlemaster to enter a Battleground will
   now port back to that Battlemaster when they leave the Battleground
   for any reason.
   Fixed range check for removing insignia from players in
   Battlegrounds.
   Fixed a bug that would cause players to stand up when a turnin was
   made in Alterac Valley.
   Players will no longer be able to gain health by repeatedly entering
   and leaving the effect of a Battle Standard.
   Entering a battleground now resets the timer for the AFK flag. This
   should prevent players being kicked by the AFK timer moments after
   they enter the Battleground instance.
   Using the /who command while in a Battleground instance will now
   only display players in your instance. 
   The requirement to purchase special Food and Bandage consumables for
   Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin has been lowered; they are now
   available for use at Friendly and Honored, respectively.
   battleground queue functionality has been improved to eliminate
   certain types of "traffic jams" that could prevent instances from
   starting.
- Consecration and other similar spells can no longer be used by
  non-PvP
  flagged players to damage PvP flagged enemies.
- Racial "Leaders" have been strengthened, and are now worth slightly
  less honor.
- Players may no longer purchase items that require a PvP rank unless
  they meet the rank requirement at the time of purchase. 

Druids
- Improved Starfire - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Druids should now be able to shapeshift back into caster form while
  Feared.
- Cat Form - The base weapon damage of the form has been increased.
- Cat Form - Each point of agility now adds 1 attack power.
- Cat Form - Rip's damage per combo point has been increased.
- Cat Form - Ferocious Bite's damage per combo point has been increased
  In addition, extra energy now converts to damage at a higher rate.
- Cat Form - Replaced global cooldown on Tiger's Fury with a 1 second
  self cooldown. In addition, its duration has been increased to 6
  seconds.
- Cat Form - Rake's damage has been increased. 
- Entangling Roots now shares the same duration in pvp as other
  long-duration forms of crowd control (ie: polymorph, fear, sap).


Hunters
- Due to significant talent changes, Hunters will have all talent
  points refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Survival and Beast Master talent trees have undergone major revisions
  in an effort to give Hunters additional, viable choices when
  selecting talents.
- Deterrence - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Improved Concussive Shot - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Trueshot Aura - Attack Power and Ranged Attack Power bonus increased,
  mana cost decreased, area of effect increased.
- Frost Trap - Updated tooltip to reflect duration of the Frost 
  Trap Effect.
- Aimed Shot - Fixed tooltip to correctly display shot time.
- Auto Shot - Fixed a bug where switching targets would cancel Auto
  Shot. Switching targets should now continue firing on the newly
  acquired target.
- Scatter Shot - Should now cancel combat mode when used.
- Eyes of the Beast - Cast time reduced.
- Flare - Fixed the tooltip to accurately reflect the actual radius of
  the effect.
- Ranged Weapon Specialization - Now affects all ranged weapon attacks
  (e.g. Arcane Shot).
- Improved Concussive Shot - Will now have a chance to stun targets
  that are afflicted with other slowing effects (e.g. Wing Clip).
- Hawk Eye and Barrage have swapped locations, and we added 1 more rank
  to Barrage.
- Freezing Trap now shares the same duration in pvp as other
  long-duration forms of crowd control (ie: polymorph, fear, sap).
- The resist rate for hunter traps is now based on the hunter's skill
  rather than the level of the trap.
- Pet Abilities
   Hunters now have the first round of pet customization available. New
   passive abilities include increased armor, stamina, Fire resistance,
   Frost resistance, Nature resistance, Shadow resistance, and Arcane
   resistance.
   Hunter pets can now be untrained of all their skills from
   any beast trainer in the major cities. Similar to talents,
   untraining a specific pet scales up as you do it more times: 10
   silver, 50 silver, 1 gold, 2 gold, 3 gold, etc., eventually stopping
   at 10 gold.
   Training point costs for all abilities have been rebalanced. You'll
   now be able to use all your pet's training points with meaningful
   choices. To help make "hunting" pets more viable in more situations,
   the Growl ability is now free to all pets.
   Bats, owls, and carrion birds can now learn the Screech ability, a
   fast single-target attack that also lowers the attack power of all
   enemies within melee range of the pet.
   Cats can now learn Stealth. In addition to being unseen, they
   receive a damage bonus for their first attack coming out of stealth.
   Scorpids can now learn Scorpid Poison. The poison deals Nature
   damage over time and stacks up to five times on a single enemy.
   Wolves can now learn Furious Howl. The howl adds a flat amount of
   damage to all nearby party member's next attack (within 15 yards). 
- Hunter pets now gain experience based on the level difference between
  them and their target rather than the difference between the Hunters
  and their target. This will make it much easier to level up a low
  level pet. Keep in mind that the Hunter must still kill creatures
  from which he/she will gain experience.
- The tooltips for quick Hunter shots have been updated to show them as
  instant abilities.
- Feign death is no longer resisted by players.
- Hunters are now able to rename their pets while mounted.
- Hunter's pets will be smarter about when to use Dash/Dive.
- Fixed bug where Aimed Shot wouldn't cancel properly when the target
  moves out of range.
- Fixed a bug where lower level versions of Immolation Trap and
  Explosive Trap were being resisted more than they should be.

Paladins
- New Spell: Hammer of Wrath (Level 44) - Hurls a hammer that strikes
  an enemy for Holy damage. Only usable on a wounded target.
- Blessing of Sacrifice no longer shares damage with dead Paladins
  (You can no longer kill Paladin Ghosts).
- Paladins can no longer activate Divine Favor on the previously cast
  healing spell. 
- Seal of the Crusader - Fixed a bug that displayed the incorrect
  amount of attack power increased by ranks 2, 3 and 5 of the spell.

Priests
- Focused Casting - Mana cost removed. Now no longer triggers the
  global cooldown on all other spells.
- Vampiric Embrace - Now heals 20% of the damage actually caused
  (including critical hits, buffs etc...) but now only heals when
  shadow spells cause the damage.
- Switching to Shadow Form no longer cancels Holy buffs on a priest.
- You can cancel melee combat while mind controlling by clearing the
  target, like you can normally. 
- Blackout - Fixed a bug where rank 2 of the talent wasn't giving a
  chance to stun.


Rogues
- Riposte - Will now initiate combat when used.
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Shoot Bow/Gun/Crossbow - Should no longer cause a global cooldown on
  all other abilities.
- The fire damage from the Blazefury Medallion and the Gutgore Ripper's
  effect should no longer immediately break Gouge. 
- Riposte - Fixed a bug where the ability was not usable when a special
  attack (e.g. Gouge) is parried.

Warlocks
- Inferno - The stun effect can now be resisted. Tooltip updated to
  reflect enslave duration after the initial summon.
- Spell Lock (Felhunter) - In addition to interrupting spellcasting, it
  will now silence the target for a short duration.
- Benefits received from the old Master Conjuror talent should now be
  removed on all Warlocks.
- Firestone - When a Firestone is equipped, it should no longer 
  interrupt tradeskill creation.
- Demonic Sacrifice - All effects gained from sacrificing the pet
  should no longer be dispellable.
- Conflagrate - The Conflagrate spell is now instant cast. The damage
  and mana cost has been raised on all ranks of the spell.
- Fear will now cause creatures to flee immediately, even if they are
  already moving.
- Succubus pets will be smarter about when to use Seduction.
- Succubus pets can now autocast Lesser Invisibility.
- Fixed a bug where Fear and Curse of Recklessness, when used together,
  would prevent targets from casting spells. 
- Fixed a bug where Soul Link and Power Word: Sheild, when used
  together, would heal the Warlock instead of splitting or absorbing
  damage. 
- Demon Armor - The armor increase will now stack together with
  Scrolls of Protection.

Warriors
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Retaliation - Will now cause a maximum of 30 retaliatory strikes in
  15 seconds. In addition, retaliatory strikes will not be possible 
  while stunned.
- Improved Revenge - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Retaliation, Recklessness and Shield Wall will no longer be cancelled
  if you switch stances while the effect is active.
- Shield Slam - Threat caused increased.
- Shoot Bow/Gun/Crossbow - Should no longer cause a global cooldown on
  all other abilities. 
- Sweeping Strikes will now ignore dead targets, and will ignore PvP
  enabled targets if you are not PvP enabled.

Items
- We have determined that the defense statistic was being applied to
  items too liberally, causing those items to be stronger than they
  should have been relative to other items of the same level with
  different effects. As a result, we have reduced the amount of defense
  points on all items with bonuses to defense by approximately 33% in
  order to bring those items in line with other similar items.
- Proficiency Bonuses have been added to the game. Some sets of
  equippable items have been added that will give bonus effects to the
  player only if they have a specific skill, such as Leatherworking.
- With the new ability to train Hunter pets with considerable magical
  resistance, the amount of pet resistance granted by the set bonuses
  for the Giantstalker's and Dragonstalker's has been reduced while the
  pet health granted has been increased.
- The Earthfury set bonus that increases the range of totems now works
  with the Mana Tide Totem.
- The Giantstalker's set bonus that increases Volley damage now works
  properly.
- The Lawbringer Paladin Set's Healing Circle effect now only affects
  your party, but the range of the heal has been increased to 30 yds.
- The pants and gloves for the Dreadmist, Magister's and Devout sets
  have had their Agility removed, and other statistics slightly
  increased.
- The free mana cost buff provided by the Mage's Netherwind armor set
  is now called "Netherwind Focus" and will be noted in your combat
  log.
- The effect of the Judge's Gavel has been changed to a stun.
- Flarecore Gloves now bind when equipped.
- Flarecore Leggings and Robe now provide a damage bonus to all spells,
  not just fire spells.
- The duration of the Bonereaver's Edge weapon debuff has been lowered,
  but the frequency of the effect has been raised.
- The Polychromatic Visionwrap is now a cloth item with durability.
- The Searing Needle's proc will now do the listed damage of the
  tooltip.
- The Unstoppable Force now has a short duration stun instead of a
  knockback effect, and the stun will occur less frequently.
- Changing stances no longer removes the Orb of Deception effect.
- When you have more than one transformation aura (Orb of Deception,
  Noggenfogger, etc.), the last one applied is the one that is shown.
- Several of the Molten Core Epic Weapons have been updated with new
  weapon glows.
- Totems affected by the Earthfury set bonus no longer have their
  effect flicker when players are outside their normal radius.
- Fixed bug preventing several items, such as the Goblin Jumper Cables,
  from being gift wrapped.
- Fixed bug where equipping and unequipping set items and other items
  with the same bonus as the set bonus could reduce the affected stats
  twice until logout.
- Sayge's Dark Fortune of Resistance now adds +25 to all schools
  instead of +10%.
- PvP reward gloves that grant stealth detection have had the detection
  reduced somewhat.
- There are now items in the game that have a duration on them that is
  measured in real time. For instance, there are fish that have a
  four-hour duration; they only last four hours regardless of whether
  or not the character is logged in.
- Alterac Valley Spring Water now has a minimum level of 55.
- The Lobotomizer's proc name has been changed to "Brain Damage".
- Corrected the art for the Nether-lace Tunic.
- The Marshal's Lamellar Legplates now have the proper strength bonus.
- The Fire Runed Grimoire and Darkmoon Card: Heroism are now properly
  considered armor items.
- The spirit buff from Bottled Alterac Spring Water should now work for
  shapeshifted druids.
- The Marshal's Silk Gloves now has the Mana Shield improvement effect.
- The effect tooltips for The Black Book, Gutgore Ripper, and Natural
  Alignment Crystal now properly list their duration.
- Scout's Blade now properly sheathes at the hip.
- A few items in the Alliance PvP Rogue and Druid sets were previously
  misnamed, this has been corrected.
- The Cenarion and Earthfury Vestments now have proper durability
  values.
- The Sergeant Major's Silk Cuffs and First Sergeant's Silk Cuffs now
  have the same amount of stamina.
- The stun from the Tidal Charm trinket no longer breaks when damage is
  dealt to the stunned target.
- The Fade effect on the Stealthblade will no longer trigger the
  cooldown for the Rogue's Feint ability.
- The effect of Black Amnesty will now be noted in the combat log.
- Rethban Ore, Black Diamonds, and Pristine Black Diamonds may now be
  found in the Miscellaneous Junk category of the Auction House.
- Blue Wedding Hanbok name changed to reflect the actual color of the
  dress.
- The minimum level 48 Lorekeeper's Ring and Advisor's Ring now
  properly consider their effects to be passive.
- Hair should no longer stick through the Helm of Endless Rage.
- Key to the City is now considered Uncommon loot.
- The Amulet and Orb of the Darkmoon have had their stats improved and
  are now Epic (purple).
- Fishing poles which provide the same bonuses as lures now get the
  extra bonus from the lure when it is applied.
- Fixed bug where moving enchanted weapons from one hand to the other
  would remove the equipped enchantment benefit.
- Fixed bug where swapping two equipped trinkets would remove one of
  the trinket's passive effects.
- Night Dragon's Breath can now be used while silenced.
- Texture for the Dragon's Touch wand corrected.
- Bind on Equip Bracers and Belts in Molten Core now drop more often.
- Cenarion Helm texture fixed.
- Invulnerable Mail changed to a lower duration effect, but your own
  melee swings will not interrupt the invulnerability.

Pets
- You can now modify the auto-cast status of pet spells in the pet
  spellbook. 

Professions
- New crafted sets have been added that require reagents found only in
  Zul'Gurub or through the reputation gained from adventuring therein.
- Only spells and abilities that target enemy units will cancel the
  World Enlarger effect.
- Black Lotus is no longer soulbound.
- Blackfury and Black Amnesty now bind when equipped.
- Catseye Goggles have had their stealth detection increased somewhat.
- The Mooncloth Robe pattern changed so it displays as white quality
  instead of blue since it is vendor purchased.
- The Effects of Flasks will now persist through death.
- Free Action potions can now be dispelled.
- Wildvine potions have been improved.
- Dreamless Sleep potions now take full effect in 12 seconds instead
  of 15.
- There is now a Horde cooking recipe that uses Tender Crocolisk Meat
  found at Brackenwall Village.
- Dark Iron Boots have been added as Blacksmithing plans that require
  Exalted reputation with the Thorium Brotherhood.
- Timbermaw Reputation Recipes are no longer sold in limited quanities
  with a restock time. If you have the reputation, you will always be
  able to buy the recipe.
- Significantly more Stranglekelp has started washing ashore to the
  beaches of the world.
- Dark Iron mineral nodes will now sometimes appear in the Burning
  Steppes and Searing Gorge.
- Enchanting an item with an enchantment that will cause the item to
  become soulbound will now prompt the enchanter with a warning message
  before the enchantment is cast.
- The Gnomish Death Ray now only can be cast if the target is within 20
  yards. Previously you could cast this on players outside that range,
  even though the spell immediately failed.
- Cured Rugged hides now stack to 10 instead of 5. 

Quest
- A great number of quests and events added to Zul'Gurub.
- A level 50 class quest has been added for the Rogue (Lord Ravenholdt
  in Ravenholdt Manor), Priest (Greta Mosshoof in Felwood), Mage
  (Archmage Xylem in Azshara), and Hunter (Ogtinc in Azshara).
- Reputation gains given to a player on the Alliance, Horde, or
  Steamwheedle Cartel factions directly will now cascade down to member
  factions through the middle of the Exalted reputation level.
- The summoning crystals of Andorhal have been removed; as a result,
  Araj the Summoner will behave like a normal spawn. The respawn time
  on Araj once he is slain is 10-15 minutes. It should be noted that
  the spawns surrounding where he holds dominion have been maintained;
  players seeking to defeat him should not be shy about bringing
  friends with them.
- Araj the Summoner now has increased hit points and does increased
  melee damage.
- Araj the Summoner no longer drops a Corruptor's Scourgestone 100% of
  the time when killed.
- The text for the Horde and Alliance versions of "Araj's Scarab" now
  reflect the changes done to the Araj encounter.
- The text for the Horde and Alliance versions of "Alas, Andorhal" now
  reflect the changes done to the Araj encounter.
- The Argent Dawn quest "The Active Agent" now offers a choice of
  rewards: Seal of the Dawn and Rune of the Dawn. Both may be used just
  like an Argent Dawn Commission.
- Players seeking to replace their Seal of the Dawn (or get a Rune of 
  the Dawn instead) once they've finished "The Active Agent" quest
  should speak with Betina Bigglezink in Eastern Plaguelands.
- The Seal of the Dawn is now unique, no longer has any cash value, and
  is no longer disenchantable.
- The level 5 quests had the ranged weapon removed from their reward
  options. This was done to make sure hunters upgrade their melee
  damage in the levels before obtaining a pet.
- Added text to the Test of Endurance quest to indicate you might need
  to bring some friends along.
- The amount of XP and Stormwind reputation has been increased for
  completing "Hilary's Necklace" quest.
- Torek in Ashenvale (the questgiver for Torek's Assault) is now PvP
  enabling.
- Important Blackrock Documents for the Horde quest, "Warlord's 
  Command," no longer despawn. They can still randomly spawn at one of
  four locations.
- Two new quests have been added to Thorium Point in the Searing Gorge
  for Thorium Brotherhood reputation turnin for players with neutral
  faction. You will now be able to turn in Iron and Heavy Leather to
  increase your reputation with the Brotherhood.
- "The Darkreaver Menace" quest has had its reward improved; any Shaman
  who has already completed the quest should speak to Sagorne
  Creststrider in Orgrimmar to get their new reward.
- The Boulderslide Ravine quest in Stonetalon Mountains now more
  clearly points players to the Boulderslide Ravine.
- The original Hakkar quest (the one that involved killing Hakkar's
  Avatar in the Sunken Temple) has been extended, and now offers a
  reward.
- Completing the initial Magram or Gelkis quest in Desolace now gives
  appropriate positive and negative reputation gains.
- The completion dialogue for the "A Rogue's Deal" quest has been
  clarified.
- All 8 versions of the "A Donation of Runecloth" quest have had their
  quest text clarified.
- Certain mobs and NPCs that erroneously had plus or minus reputation
  gains on kills for Horde or Alliance have been corrected.
- Various quest typos fixed. 

Raids and Dungeons
- Characters will now receive an error when attempting to enter a raid
  dungeon if the reason they cannot enter is because they are not in a
  raid group.
- Fixed a bug that was preventing Rallying Cry of the Dragon Slayer to
  fire when Onyxia's head was turned in (assuming a head was not
  already up).
- You can now no longer avoid Onyxia's confuse effect by jumping or
  moving erratically.
- Death Knight Darkreaver in Scholomance shouldn't be so noisy anymore.
- The Ogre Tannin Basket in Dire Maul should stick around longer if
  someone opens it and does not initially loot the tannin from it.
- A few Molten Core bosses now drop Fiery or Lava Cores. 

User Interface
- New "Dressing Room" Interface now available! If you control-left
  click on any item, item reference (vendors, quests) or item link
  (chat), a UI panel will appear showing your character wearing that
  item. You can then use the same command (control-left click) on
  additional items to add to the preview appearance. In addition, the
  Auction House now has a checkbox in the upper right-hand corner; if
  checked, any item you click on within the Auction House will
  automatically be previewed on your character.
- Need Before Greed and Group Loot options have been improved. The
  rolling window that appears when an item of the threshold and above
  is looted now has three buttons: a Need button (the dice), a Greed
  button (the coin), and a close button. Any players who select Need
  will get a chance to roll first for the item, with the high roller
  winning. If no one selects Need, all characters who selected Greed
  will then roll,with the highest roll winning the item. If everyone
  closes the window, the item becomes lootable by anyone in the group.
- You can now disable the slow scrolling of text when you are receiving
  a new quest.
- Opening the overhead map will now "ping" your location your map (to
  make it easier to notice your location when there are many friendlies
  nearby on the overhead map).
- The overhead map now displays a directional icon for your character.
- Spell effects that stack multiple times on a character will now
  display a number in the bottom corner indicating how many times the
  effect has stacked. For example, if a player has had the Sunder Armor
  ability used on them three times, the Sunder Armor effect icon will
  display a 3 in the corner.
- A confirmation dialog is now shown when you choose to make an Inn
  your home.
- The tooltip for spells like Seal of the Crusader correctly reflects
  the benefit of the spell, instead of occasionally being off by one.
- Using /random will now send the text to your party or raid wherever
  they are instead of the local area around the player that used
  /random.
- When in a raid group, the group you are in will now appear above your
  name next to your portrait.
- Mail recipient name completion now works with offline guild members
  even if you are not showing them in the guild UI.
- Guild ranks and player notes are now filtered by the profanity
  filter.
- The temporary mana cost reduction of Burst of Knowledge and similar
  effects is now reflected in tooltips.
- Quest rewards are now linked in chat like other items gained.
- You can auto-equip items while in flight by right clicking on them,
  as you would normally.
- Fixed bug preventing the Release Spirit dialog from showing if you
  die while jumping in lava.
- You can now use the Escape key to exit out of pop up dialogues.
- Fixed lua error when relinking poor and standard quality items from
  loot messages.
- Consumable items on the action bar will now always show the number
  remaining, even if there are none in your inventory.
- You can create the directory Interface\Icons, and any 32x32 .blp or
  .tga files you put in there will be available in the icon list for
  your macros.
- Pet spells in macros are now supported, both using /cast and using
  CastSpellByName().
- If you omit the rank of a spell in /cast or CastSpellByName(), it
  will use the highest rank of the spell which you know.
- While it will still be possible to override files in
  Interface/FrameXML, doing so is discouraged (and is likely to become
  impossible in a future release). Significant API additions are being
  made to eliminate the need for such direct FrameXML changes.
- You will now be able to list .lua files directly in the addon
  .toc file.
- The SetPoint() and SetAllPoints() script functions can take an actual
  frame instead of a frame name.
- TargetNearest* script functions will only work in response to a
  button click or a key binding, to discourage addons which scan the
  battlefield for targets.
- Addon-specific Saved Variables!
   Each addon's saved variables will be saved in the file
   WTF\Account\{accountname}\SavedVariables\{addonname}.lua, and will
   only be loaded when the addon is loaded.
     IMPORTANT: The first time you enter the game with this change, you
     must make sure all your addons are enabled, or their saved
     variables will be lost! If you accidentally do this once, you can
     recover by quitting the game, moving your backup SavedVariables.
     lua into place and restarting the game with addons enabled.

- Addon Loading On Demand!
   If you add the following line to your addon's .toc file, it will not
   be loaded at the normal load time, it will instead be dynamically
   loaded upon request:

            ## LoadOnDemand: 1

            You can query to see if an addon is loaded by using the new
            IsAddOnLoaded("addonname") function, and you can load an
            addon dynamically using the LoadAddOn("addonname") function.
            This function returns true if the addon is loaded
            successfully, and can be safely and efficiently called even
            if the addon is already loaded.

            For your convenience, the function
            UIParentLoadAddOn("addonname") is provided which will
            attempt to load the addon and pop up an error message if it
            failed to load for any reason.

            Once an addon is loaded, the ADDON_LOADED event is sent,
            with arg1 set to the name of the addon. An addon can listen
            for that event, and when it recieves that event with it's
            own name, it can safely access its saved variables.

            An important thing to note is that when an addon is loaded
            dynamically, it doesn't have access to any of the virtual
            frame templates that are defined by FrameXML, including
            font definitions.

- New Scripting Functions
   debugprofilestart() - starts a timer for profiling during debugging.
   millis = debugprofilestop() - return the time in milliseconds since
   the last call to debugprofilestart() 
- New UI Element Member Functions
   handlerFunction = Frame:GetScript("handler") - (for handlers like
   "OnShow", "OnEnter", etc) which returns the current event handler
   for a frame.
   Frame:SetScript("handler", function) - sets the action/event handler
   for a frame (or removes it with a nil function)
   Frame:SetBackdrop(nil) / Frame:SetBackdrop({bgFile = "bgFile",
   edgeFile = "edgeFile", tile = false, tileSize = 0, edgeSize = 32,
   insets = { left = 0, right = 0, top = 0, bottom = 0 }}) (Note: This
   is a table argument)
   FontString:SetFont("font", size [, "flags"]).
   StatusBar:SetStatusBarTexture("file" [, "layer"])
   lines = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetMaxLines()
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetMaxLines(lines)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:EnableFading([isEnabled]) (Defaults to true)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFadeDuration(seconds)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetTimeVisible(seconds)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:Clear()
   lines = EditBox:GetHistoryLines()
   EditBox:SetHistoryLines(lines)
   EditBox:SetIgnoreArrows([isIgnored]) (Defaults to true)
   r,g,b,a = FontString:GetTextColor() 
   Frame:SetParent(nil, or "parent" or parentFrame)
   numChildren = Frame:GetNumChildren()
   child1, child2, child3, ... = Frame:GetChildren()
- Addon Saved Variables
   SavedVariables will no longer drop stored numbers to single 
   precision.
   Infinite/Nan values no longer cause corrupted SavedVariables.lua
   file.(Written as nils with comment) 
- Chat and Combat Logging
   The script functions ChatFrameLog() and ToggleCombatLogFileWrite()
   are obsolete.
   Added script function: isLogging=LoggingChat([newState]) (Returns
   new state (or current state if no argument))
   Added script function: isLogging=LoggingCombat([newState]) (Returns
   new state (or current state if no argument))
   New slash command /chatlog toggles chat logging (/combatlog toggles
   combat logging)
   The file for the chat log is Logs\WoWChatLog.txt and the file for
   the combat log is Logs\WoWCombatLog.txt
   Chat and combat log files will be appended to rather than
   overwritten.
   You now receive combat log messages and damage feedback when you are
   being attacked by creatures you can't see.
   If you call a tamed Deepmoss Hatchling, you are no longer notified
   that you hatched.
   Fixed disconnection caused by relinking an item in a different
   locale than that of your client.
   Looted items now always show their names in the appropriate quality
   color. 
   You now get combat feedback when you take damage from unseen
   opponents, like the Unseen in Raven Hill.
   Fixed damage display on the character sheet when you have Fury of
   the Frostwolf or Stormpike's Salvation.

World Environment
- The Ranazjar Isle sub-area has been added off the northwest coast of
  Desolace. The Ranazjar Isle puzzle piece now properly pops when you
  venture there.
- Entering the zeppelin towers at Durotar and Grom'gol Base Camp no
  longer incorrectly flags you as being in the Valley of Strength.
- Argent Dawn, Timbermaw, Zandalar and Arathi Basin vendors now show
  you their entire inventory regardless of current reputation, allowing
  players to peruse their full range of wares. The items in question
  now require the appropriate reputation level to make use of them.
- Some of the ship and zeppelin paths have been modified.
- Gor'tesh and Grol the Destroyer should no longer stay in evade mode
  indefinitely.
- A new inn has been added to the Grom'gol Base Camp in Stranglethorn
  Vale at the base of the zeppelin tower.
- The Champion's Hall and the Hall of Legends have new load screens.
- Some Horde quest NPCs were moved to new locations to promote more
  intuitive quest flow: Storm Shadowhoof who was previously at 
  Bloodvenom Falls in Felwood has been moved to Everlook. Witch Doctor
  Mau'ari who was previously in Orgrimmar has been moved to Everlook.
- Scorpids above level 10 now drop more valuable parts than they did
  previously.
- Rare Felwood creatures should now have loot.
- Twilight's Hammer creatures in Silithus can now be pickpocketed.
- Zone bound items, such as the Gordok Courtyard Key, will no longer
  leave your inventory if you are a ghost outside their intended zone.
  Reviving in a zone outside the item's listed zone binding will still
  cause the item to disappear, however.
- Pelturas Whitemoon's faction has been fixed; the NPC is now properly
  associated with Darnassus.
- Narm Faulk is now a part of the Ironforge Faction.
- Hadoken Swiftstrider now has gossip text.
- Ferra can now be skinned.
- Fixed a typo in Ogunaro Wolfrunner's greeting to those who are not
  yet friendly with Orgrimmar.
- Fixed a typo on a signpost in Western Plaguelands. 
- Sayges buffs at the Darkmoon Faire are now exclusive to one another.
- Onyxia no longer teleports from point to point while flying.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.6.1 (2005-08-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 General
- Spell casting is no longer interrupted when leaving combat. 

 Warriors
- Improved Shield Block - Fixed a bug where Rank 3 of the talent was 
  not granting the extra block.
- Bloodthirst - Damage bonus increased to 40% of attack power. 

 Items
- The Oil of Immolation effect is no longer affected by bonuses to 
  spell damage from items. 

 Raids & Dungeons
- Blackwing Lair
   Several encounters in Blackwing Lair now cause the front gate to 
   close, preventing players from zoning out or joining an in-progress 
   battle.
   The Razorgore encounter has been changed slightly to make it less 
   "random". The spawning should be more consistent throughout the 
   fight.
   The timer for Vaelastrasz the Corrupt is now more persistent. You 
   can no longer reset the one-hour time limit for beating him by 
   leaving the instance. Also, Vaelastrasz the Corrupt will not respawn 
   for 12 hours if he has not been beaten when the timer expires.
   The drakes in Blackwing Lair will no longer leave the lab. 
- Maraudon
   Lowered experience values for Creeping Sludge. 

 Macs
- Increased the maximum number of sounds which can be played 
  simultaneously. This will fix problems where some sounds could be 
  dropped in very busy situations.
- Fixed WoW Error Reporter so that it doesn't crash under Mac OS X 
  10.4 when trying to send an error report.
- Worked around an issue where you would lose your Expose/Dashboard 
  preferences if you crashed or asserted while in fullscreen mode on 
  Mac OS X 10.4.
- Fixed the "blockWidth", "srec", and "bitnum < m_numBits" assertions 
  bugs that would crash the game.
- Fixed a bug involving corpses near the player that could result in a 
  crash ("BusError"). 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.6.0 (2005-07-12)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Blackwing Lair Released!
  Nefarian's sanctum, Blackwing Lair, can be found at the very height
  of Blackrock Spire. It is there in the dark recesses of the 
  mountain's peak that Nefarian has begun to unfold the final stages of
  his plan to destroy Ragnaros once and for all and lead his army to 
  undisputed supremacy over all the races of Azeroth. Blackwing Lair 
  is a max-level, 40-player raid dungeon, with many new encounters and 
  tempting rewards awaiting the intrepid adventurer that dares enter 
  its halls.

Darkmoon Faire!
  A gathering of the exotic from around the world and beyond, Silas 
  Darkmoon has brought together the Darkmoon Faire as a celebration of
  the wondrous and mysterious found in Azeroth. While the Faire spends
  most of their time in parts unknown, they do stop from time to time 
  in Mulgore and Elwynn forest. When the faire is on its way barkers 
  will stop by Ogrimmar and Ironforge to announce its arrival.

Battlemasters!
  There is a new way to enter the battleground queues.  Battlemasters!
  Located in some of the cities, right-clicking on a battlemaster will
  allow your character to enter a battleground queue just like you 
  normally would if you touched that battlegrounds entrance portal.  
  The functionality is exactly the same, so when its your characters
  time to enter the chosen battleground, you will be teleported 
  directly in.  Glordrum Steelbeard stands in the Hall of Arms in 
  Ironforge, serving as the Alliance battlemaster for Alterac Valley.  
  Aethalas of the Silverwing Sentinels stands ready in Darnassus, next
  to the warrior trainers, to send Alliance characters into Warsong 
  Gulch.  And in the Hall of the Brave, located in Orgrimmars Valley 
  of Honor, Brakgul Deathbringer serves as the Hordes battlemaster 
  for Warsong Gulch, while Kartra Bloodsnarl will send you to bring 
  glory to the Horde in Alterac Valley. Guards in their respective 
  cities can give you directions on how to find them.

General
- There is a new option upon the login screen.  If you click the 
  "Remember Name" checkbox on the left side of the screen, the game 
  will automatically fill in your account name when it starts up.
- Will of the Forsaken (Undead Racial) - duration of the lasting 
  immunity effect decreased to 5 seconds.
- Cannibalize (Undead Racial) - Regeneration increased to 35% of a
  character's total health over 10 seconds.
- Stoneform (Dwarf Racial) - can now be used to cancel self-inflicted 
  poison effects.
- Fist Weapons will now have the normal chance to parry that all 
  weapons use. 
- It will no longer be possible to swap any equipment while stunned. 
- Pets will now enter passive/follow mode when their masters mount.
- The Dazed effect caused by NPCs will now stack with all other
  movement slowing effects.  Note that the movement slowing effects 
  will not stack, but the debuff icons will remain to ensure the full 
  duration of these effects persist.
- Damage caused by environmental effects will now cancel stealth (e.g. 
  swimming in lava).
- Several creature spells that silenced players are now properly 
  flagged as silence effects, which will allow talents such as 
  Unbreakable Will to provide a higher chance to resist the effects. 
- Spells that drain mana will now properly report the amount of mana 
  gained in the combat log.
- Clarified the error message when no corpses are available for the 
  Cannibalize ability.
- Clarified the error message when trying to attack while mounted.
- Resurrection spells should now check range properly when used on 
  targets that have released their spirit.
- Spell reflection effects have greatly improved visuals and 
  functionality.
- Knockback effects are now synchronized with any associated missile
  impacts.
- Special abilities which are parried will correctly activate abilities
  which are usable after parrying.
- Damage shield spells no longer damage you if you use spells that 
  damage both you and your enemies.
- Fixed graphical anomalies when using channeled abilities in a group 
  with a grounding totem.
- Fixed the duration of Frostbite on pets which are dismissed and then
  recalled.
- Fixed a bug where broken off-hand fist weapons would prevent main-
  hand dagger abilities from being usable
- Health leech effects no longer give you health while you are a ghost.
- You no longer spout profanity when talking about sitting while drunk.

Macintosh
- Some optimizations for terrain loading and rendering were added for 
  the Macintosh build.
- Enabled multisample support in the video options.
- Fixed an issue where inspecting crafted items on other users could 
  potentially show attributes that those items did not have.
- Updated the Mac sound code to use memory more efficiently.

PvP
- Honor System
   There is now a progress bar on the Honor tab of your character 
   window that displays how close you are to your next rank.
   There is a new "This Week" section of the Honor tab, which will 
   display PvP accomplishments of the current week.
   The honor screen now displays a bar indicating how far along 
   your current rank you are (Scout, Private, etc). This will 
   let you know whether you are moving towards your next rank or 
   falling back towards your previous rank.
   The "This Session" section of the Honor tab has been changed to 
   "Today", and will now display the entirety of your accomplishments 
   for the day instead of the most recent session.
   Players rank 11 or higher can now chat in the WorldDefense channel.
   The WorldDefense and LocalDefense channels will now display your 
   rank as well as your name when chatting.
   Battleground scoreboards now display the time elapsed in a 
   battleground.
- Warsong Gulch
   Warsong Gulch has new item rewards at the appropriate faction vendor
   near the entrances to the zone. These are available starting at 
   Honored faction.
   Friendly flag carriers are now displayed on the overhead map in 
   Warsong Gulch.
   Both the Warsong Outrider Supply Officer and the Silverwing Sentinel
   Supply Officer of Warsong Gulch now offer distinct tabards for 
   purchase.  Those heroes who are of Exalted status with one of these 
   factions may purchase the tabard for 5 gold (discounts not included). 
   Players now receive a faction bonus for completing the repeatable 
   Warsong Gulch quests. 
- Alterac Valley
   Each team will now gain additional bonus honor if their towers are 
   not destroyed by the end of the map.  The more towers that remained
   intact, the more honor received. 
   If you manage to keep your faction's Captain alive for the duration 
   of a battle, you will be granted extra points upon victory. 
   Several Alterac Valley vendor items are now bind on acquire.
   The respawn time for tower guards (assuming the tower has not been 
   destroyed) has been greatly increased.
   Korrak the Bloodrager has gained immunities to many different spell 
   and ability effects.
   The minimum reputation needed to send a cavalry charge has been 
   reduced to Honored. 
   Players of Revered or higher reputation may now call offensive air 
   strikes if they have managed to rescue their respective Wing 
   Commanders.
   Alterac Valley's guard spawn is now controlled via a more intuitive
   mechanism. Please check the Officer Supply vendors for your faction
   to read up on the changes.
   Fixed a bug that sometimes prevented the Alliance team from 
   receiving honor for destroying towers. 
   Fixed a bug that was not awarding Horde credit for owning a mine at
   the end of a game. 
- Dispel Magic can no longer be used on players participating in a duel 
  unless the caster is in the duel. 
- You are considered in combat for the entire duration of a duel.
- You cant assist players which are engaged in free-for-all PvP unless
  you are also in free-for-all PvP.
- If you have PvP combat toggled on, it will no longer be cleared when 
  taking a flight.
- Hunter traps work properly in duels if the target is flagged for PvP
  and the hunter is not.
- Removing an insignia in PvP no longer marks both players as being in
  combat.

Druids
- Shapeshifting will now counteract the slowing effects of frost-based
  spells (Frostbolt, Frost Shock, Cone of Cold, etc.).
- Feral Charge - Targets that are immune to immobilizing effects will 
  no longer be affected by Feral Charge's immobilizing effect.  The 
  interrupt will still affect the target.
- Shadowmeld (Night Elf Racial) - Now reports the correct error message 
  when attempted in shapeshift form.
- Druid shapeshift form buttons are no longer dimmed while under the 
  effects of Polymorph.


Hunters
- Counterattack - Will now cause damage to targets immune to 
  immobilizing effects.
- Wing Clip - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing
  effects. 
- Explosive Trap - Fixed a bug where the trap's effects suffered 
  inappropriate damage reduction against high level targets.  In 
  addition, damage caused by this trap should no longer kill opponents 
  in duels. 
- Aspect of the Cheetah/Pack - Non-damaging spells and abilities will 
  no longer cause the dazed effect.  In addition, when switching 
  between Pack and Cheetah, you should no longer receive the "A more 
  powerful spell is already active" error message.
- Beast Lore - Will no longer flag you for PvP or cause guard 
  retaliation when used on an enemy faction target.

Mages 
- Frostbolt - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects will
  no longer be affected by Frostbolt's movement slowing effect.  Damage
  will still be caused. 
- Frost Nova - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing 
  effects.
- Blast Wave - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing 
  effects. 
- Cone of Cold - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects 
  will no longer be affected by Cone of Cold's movement slowing effect.
  Damage will still be caused. 
- Detect Magic - will no longer cause guard retaliation in Goblin towns.
- Ignite - Can now be dispelled by any effect that dispels magic 
  effects.  
- Frost Armor/Ice Armor - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by the Chill's movement slowing 
  effect.  Targets will still have their melee attack speed reduced. 
- Arcane Instability - Fixed a bug where rank 3 of this talent was not
  increasing the periodic damage of various spells by the correct 
  amount (was increasing by 2% and should now properly increase by 3%).

Paladins
- Blessing of Freedom - Will now counter the movement impairing effects
  of Frostbolt, Cone of Cold, Frost Shock.  It will no longer prevent 
  the damage taken by Frost Nova, Hamstring, Wing Clip, Mind Flay,
  Counterattack, or Blast Wave or the melee and ranged attack speed 
  slowing effects of Cripple.
- Consecration - No longer resets weapon timer when cast.
- Improved Seal of Justice - Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Seal of Command - Should now correctly report damage in the overhead 
  display and the combat log.
- Summon Charger - New icon.
- Fixed a bug where the Paladin did not always die when using the 
  Divine Intervention spell.

Priests
- Mind Flay - Will now cause damage to targets immune to movement 
  slowing effects. 
- Shadowform - Changed so all spells except Holy can be cast rather 
  than only Shadow and Discipline spells.  Tooltip updated.  This fixes
  several bugs that prevented various actions (creating tradeskill 
  items, mining, summoning a mount, using a hearthstone and many more).
- Spirit of Redemption - Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Touch of Weakness - Stronger versions of this effect on enemy targets 
  will no longer be replaced by weaker versions.

Rogues
- Riposte - Targets immune to disarm effects will now take damage from 
  Riposte.
- Disarming an enemy faction hunter's trap will now flag the rogue for 
  PvP.
- Ghostly Strike - no longer deals damage to you when you use it.
- Premeditation - Fixed a bug where the combo points gained using the 
  ability were not properly removed after the duration expired.  Also 
  increased range and duration.
- The UI now properly shows that Preparation does not clear a Cold 
  Blood setup.

Shaman
- Frost Shock - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects 
  will no longer be affected by Frost Shock's movement slowing effect.
  Damage will still be caused. 
- Reincarnation will no longer be an option on death when a Soulstone
  effect is active on the Shaman. The Soulstone will be used as the 
  higher priority effect.
- Frostbrand Weapon - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by Frostbrand Weapon's movement
  slowing effect.  Damage will still be caused. 
- Call of Flame - Fixed a bug where the damage bonus did not always 
  increase various totems.
- Chain spells cast on PvP targets by an unflagged Shaman will now 
  properly bounce to other PvP targets.
- The tooltip for Fire Nova Totem now correctly reflects the damage the
  totems deal.

Warlocks
- Due to significant talent changes, Warlocks will have all talent 
  points refunded and can be respent. 
- Cripple (Doomguard) - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by Cripple's movement slowing 
  effect.  Melee and ranged attack speed slowing effects will still 
  affect these targets. 
- Demon Skin/Demon Armor - Now increases health regeneration at all 
  times, as was always intended.  Previously, the health regeneration 
  only occurred out of combat.  Tooltips updated.
- Demonic Sacrifice - The sacrifice effects for the Voidwalker and 
  Felhunter have changed.  The Voidwalker will now regenerate 3% of 
  your total health every 4 seconds.  The Felhunter will now regenerate
  2% of your total mana every 4 seconds. 
- Demonic Sacrifice now works properly on banished summons.
- Summon Dreadsteed - New icon. 
- Dark Pact - Fixed a bug where the combat log was reporting an 
  incorrect value of mana gained by the caster when there wasn't enough
  mana to drain from the pet. 
- Phase Shift (Imp) - While phase shifted, the imp is now targetable 
  but will remain an invalid target for all spells and attacks except 
  self-cast spells. 
- Improved Healthstone - The increased effect from this talent should
  now properly apply to other players that use the Warlock's 
  Healthstones.
- Ritual of Summoning - Fixed a bug where players could be summoned 
  from outside the same instance as the warlock in some cases. 
- Unholy Power - No longer requires the Fel Stamina talent.  Is now a 
  tier 4 talent and is a prerequisite for the new Master Demonologist 
  talent.
- Master Conjuror - Talent replaced with a new talent called Master 
  Demonlogist. 
- New Talent (Demonology): Master Demonologist - Grants both the 
  Warlock and the summoned demon an effect as long as that demon is 
  active.  The effect granted depends on the type of demon summoned. 
- Unholy Power - No longer requires the Fel Stamina talent.  It now 
  requires the Master Demonologist talent. 
- Ritual of Doom - Should now display the cooldown.

Warriors
- Due to significant talent changes, Warriors will have all talent 
  points refunded and can be respent. 
- Hamstring - Will now cause damage to targets immune to movement 
  slowing effects.  Movement slowing effect improved. 
- Improved Hamstring - Design changed.  No longer improves the movement
  slowing effect.  It is now a 3 point talent that gives a 5/10/15% 
  chance to immobilize the target for 5 seconds. 
- Booming Voice - In addition to increasing duration, this talent will
  now increase the area of effect of Battle Shout and Demoralizing 
  Shout by 10/20/30/40/50%. 
- Battle Shout - Tooltip updated to display area of effect (in yards). 
- Demoralizing Shout - Tooltip updated to display area of effect (in
  yards). 
- Improved Berserker Rage - No longer increases the duration of the 
  effect.  The talent will now generate 5/10 rage when Berserker Rage
  is used.
- Improved Demoralizing Shout - Effectiveness increase from talent 
  increased to 8/16/24/32/40%. 
- Piercing Howl - No longer has a prerequisite (Improved Demoralizing 
  Shout). 
- Deathwish - Is now usable while under a Fear effect, which will also
  remove the Fear effect. 
- Bloodthirst - Design changed.  Bloodthirst is now an instant melee 
  attack that causes damage equal to 30% of the warrior's attack power.
  In addition, the next 5 successful melee attacks will restore health.
- Concussion Blow - No longer requires purchase of the Improved Revenge
  talent.
- Shield Discipline - Removed and replaced by the new talent Shield 
 Slam.
- New Talent: Shield Slam - Slam the target with your shield, causing 
  damage and has a 50% chance to dispel 1 magic effect on the target.  
  Also causes a moderate amount of threat.  Requires the purchase of 
  the Concussion Blow talent. 
- Heroic Strike/Sunder Armor/Revenge/Mocking Blow - Tooltips updated 
  to indicate the additional threat caused by these abilities.  There
  have been no changes to the amount of threat caused.

Items
- Sets
   Felheart, Cenarion, Giantstalker's and Earthfury item sets now have
   updated art. The Felheart Skullcap is now also called something more 
   appropriate to the new art.
   Grand Marshal and High Warlord PvP Honor rewards have been updated 
   with improved statistics and new unique art.
   The Alliance Mail and Horde Leather and Mail Epic PvP Honor reward 
   armor sets have received art updates. 
   The stealth detection bonus on the Druid PvP set gloves has been 
   changed to work in all forms, including caster form. 
   The set bonus for The Champion's Earthshaker has a revised tooltip 
   to more clearly state that all Shock spells have an increased spell 
   critical chance.
   The 8 piece set bonus for Dreadmist will now appropriately affect 
   shadow spells.
   The tooltip for the improved feint effectiveness set bonus of the 
   Bloodfang armor set has been corrected to show the actual percentage
   increase.
   When worn by female characters, the Beaststalker's Tunic had a 
   missing texture piece last patch. This has been corrected.
   Set items which are broken no longer contribute to set bonus 
   listings in the item tooltips.
- The Horde and Alliance PvP Battle Standards may now only be used 
  inside PvP Battlegrounds, but the cooldown has been reduced to 10 
  minutes.
- The Rank 3 Stormpike Insignia now has the correct health regeneration
  effect.
- You can now only have one Flask affecting you at a time. 
- The Seal of the Dawn trinket now counts as though you were also 
  wearing an Argent Dawn Commission trinket.
- The Goblin Sapper Charge can now be used while moving.
- Dark Iron Bomb tooltip text and stun effect radius has been corrected
  to be the appropriate 5 yards. 
- Librams are now considered to be Books when searching for these items
  in the Auction House. 
- The Discombobulator Ray's effect has been changed: it now reduces 
  movement speed to 80% of normal and reduces the target's damage with
  both spells and melee by 40.  The range is now 20 yards.
- Snowblind Shoes are now properly marked as an Epic item. 
- Band of Sulfuras is now unique. 
- Fireguard Shoulders now have a graphic.
- Flask of Forest Mojo can now be sold.
- The Bloodseeker crossbow's firing animation has been corrected. 
- The damage from Smokey's Lighter will now show up appropriately in 
  the combat log.
- The water breathing ability of the Hydrocane will now continue to 
  work if the player is shapeshifted.
- Both helpful and harmful effects from the Deviate Fish will remain
  after logging out.
- Dark Iron Bracers have been changed to Bind on Equip.
- Set bonus for Stormshroud armor improved. It should be more 
  compelling for rogues and druids now.
- Winters Might recipe now displays the correct +7 to spell damage 
  instead of +5.
- Fixed a typo in the item tooltip for the Alliance's Rune of Recall. 
- Several lootable items in Alterac Valley have had their stack limit
  changed.

Professions
- Thorium Brotherhood now offers several new recipes. Additionally, 
  several of the old recipes now have different faction requirements.
- Additional Smithing/Leatherworking/Tailoring/Enchanting Recipes added 
  to Timbermaw at Honored Reputation.
- Additional Smithing/Leatherworking/Tailoring/Enchanting Recipes added 
  to Argent Dawn at Honored and Revered Reputation.Also new First Aid 
  recipe added to Argent Dawn at Honored.
- Lokhtos Darkbargainer in Blackrock Depths now has many additional 
  recipes that can be learned at Honored, Revered and Exalted            
  reputation.Recipes are available for Enchanting, Tailoring, 
  Leatherworking (all three specialty types), Blacksmithing 
  (Armorsmithing, and Weaponsmithing (all three specialty types).


Quests
- There is now an access quest to gain entry to Blackwing Lair. Happy 
  Hunting!
- Shadow Priest Vandis at the Bulwark should now properly buff players
  who complete any step of the "Return to the Bulwark" quest in Western
  Plaguelands. 
- Fixed a typo in the Horde version of the quest "Reclaimed Treasures". 
- Imps during the Warlock Mount Ritual in Dire Maul will no longer get 
  stuck at their spawn-in portals. 
- Using the Collectronic Module on frozen rookery eggs for the quest 
  "Egg Collection" will correctly consume them.
- Obtaining a set of Thieves Tools in the quest "Tools of the Trade"
  no longer flags you for PvP.

Raids and Dungeons 
- Several spawns removed from Scholomance.  This should make for a more
  enjoyable 5 player experience.
- Several spawns removed from Stratholme.  This should make for a more 
  enjoyable 5 player experience.  Also, you will now be able to make 
  additional attempts at Ramstein and/or Baron Rivendare should your 
  initial attempt fail.
- The trapped chests in Stratholme will now show up for Detect Traps
  and can be disarmed. In addition, the number of creatures that come
  out of the trapped chests has been reduced.
- Many creatures in Stratholme have gained Detect Invisibility/Stealth.
- The loot tables in Molten Core have been revised slightly.
- Characters that die and release in the Molten Core will now receive a
  minimap corpse marker and arrow that will lead them to the window 
  next to Lothos Riftwaker in Blackrock Mountain.
- Phase shifted imps are no longer hit by Magmadars Lava Bomb.
- Damage and resist messages from Magmadars Lava Bomb shows up in the
  combat log. 
- Fixed a bug that was causing the Cache of the Firelord (Majordomo 
  Loot chest), the Chest of the Seven (Blackrock Depths seven dwarves
  chest) and the Gordok Tribute Chest (Dire Maul) from despawning too 
  soon.
- The chance for an Epic quest item dropping from the Majordomo's chest 
  has been increased to 100%. 
- The Corrupted Forces of Nature in Maraudon will now pursue correctly.
- Dire Maul has had several spawn locations changed and a slight 
  increase in population.
- Crystal Fang, the rare spawn in Blackrock Spire, will now potentially
  appear.

User Interface
- Raid UI has been significantly improved. You can now open the raid UI 
  and drag the name of a class to your gamefield to have a listing of 
  all players of that class be displayed on the game field. Likewise 
  you can drag a group name to your playfield to have the players in 
  that group displayed on your gamefield. In either case the display 
  will show the health, mana and limited buffs or debuffs on each 
  player in the group or class and you can click on a player listed 
  this way to target that player.   You can then right-click on the 
  class or group UI element to make some modifications to how the UI 
  displays or to remove the UI element.
- If you cycle through targets with the Tab key, manually select a 
  different target using another method, then quickly hit Tab again,
  your last Tab-selected target will be re-selected and you can 
  continue Tab-selecting where you left off.  Clearing your target will
  restart the Tab selection process.
- Items on the action bar now remain there even after they are consumed.
- If you shift-click on an item link while you are entering chat text, 
  the item link will now be pasted into your text.
- Mail recipient auto-completion will now use names from your guild as
  well as your friends list.
- Hitting Escape will now cancel ranged weapon auto-shots.
- The pet UI will now be greyed out while you are mounted to reflect 
  the fact that you can't command your pet.
- NPCs which give dishonorable kills have the rank of Civilian and show
  up with a white title background in the targeting frame.
- The effect of damage resistance and vulnerability is now displayed in
  the combat log.
- Combat abilities which are fully blocked show up correctly in the 
  combat log.
- Crushing and glancing blows show more information in the combat log.
- Damage from poisons and curses now shows up in the UI after the 
  caster has been killed.
- Players now receive an error message if they try to join a meeting 
  stone queue and are in a raid or are not the party leader.
- TargetUnitsPet() is obsolete and has been removed from the scripting 
  system.
- Added UnitInRaid(), TargetLastTarget() and TargetNearestRaidMember() 
  to the scripting system.
- The GetPlayerMapPosition() script function will only work for you, 
  your party and raid.
- Fixed an issue where chat window positions may not be restored to the
  correct positions when re-entering the world.
- Fixed occasional crash when speech bubbles are enabled around NPCs 
  that talk a lot.
- Fixed occasional crash when listing a chat channel with a large 
  numbers of players.
- Fixed temporary lockup experienced by spell casting players when they
  are kicked.


World Environment
- Flight Paths
   Added a Wind Rider Master to Camp Taurajo in The Barrens. 
   New Horde Flight Paths -- 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Crossroads in The Barrens 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Thunder Bluff in Mulgore 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Freewind Post in Thousand Needles 
   Fixed several problems with the flight path from Undercity to 
   Hammerfall while passing through the Ruins of Andorhal. 
   Fixed some problems with the Ironforge to Stormwind flight path. 
   The Darkshire <-> Booty Bay flight paths no longer fly over the 
   Gurubashi Arena in Stranglethorn Vale, and therefore no longer 
   flag fliers as being in Free-for-All PvP. Also, they should no 
   longer fly through the zeppelins coming in and out of the Grom'Gol 
   Base Camp.
- Graveyards
   Feralas, Durotar, Mulgore, Darnassus, Tirisfal Glades (excluding
   the Bulwark graveyard), Elwynn Forest & the Eastern Plaguelands
   have now all been converted over to the new graveyard system.
   The system will place your character's spirit at the closest
   allowed graveyard in the zone. For example, an Alliance character
   dying closer to the new Darnassus graveyard, detailed below,
   will use that graveyard rather than the one located at Dolanaar. 
   Starting area graveyards are still reserved exclusively for 
   characters of similar faction that die within their confines.
   For example, the spirit of a Horde character dying right outside
   of Deathknell will not use Deathknell graveyard, but will instead
   go to the next closest Tirisfal Glades graveyard. 
   A Horde-only graveyard has been added in the northern section of 
   Durotar, just to the south of Orgrimmar.  In addition to serving 
   northern Durotar, Horde characters dying in Orgrimmar, The Hall
   of Legends and Ragefire Chasm will use this new graveyard.
   Alliance characters dying in Durotar will continue to only
   use the Razor Hill graveyard. 
   A Horde-only graveyard has been placed at the northern base of
   Thunder Bluff in Mulgore. Horde characters dying in Thunder Bluff
   will also use this new graveyard.  Alliance characters dying in
   Mulgore will continue to only use the graveyard at Bloodhoof
   Village. 
   An Alliance-only graveyard has been added at the eastern end of
   Darnassus.  Alliance characters dying in Darnassus will use this
   new graveyard.  Horde characters dying on Teldrassil will still
   only be able to use the graveyard at Dolanaar. 
   An Alliance-only graveyard has been added just outside of Ironforge,
   around the side of the mountain.  It is only for use by Alliance 
   characters that die inside Ironforge and in the Gates of Ironforge
   sub-area of Dun Morogh.  Horde characters dying therein will 
   continue to only use the Kharanos graveyard. 
   The Ruins of Lordaeron above Undercity now has a Horde-only 
   graveyard.  Horde characters dying inside the Undercity will use
   this new graveyard. Alliance characters will continue to solely use 
   the Faol's Rest graveyard. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added at the Eastvale Logging Camp
   in Elwynn Forest.  The graveyard at Goldshire is now for use by 
   the Alliance exclusively. Horde characters dying in Elwynn Forest
   and its sub-areas, as well as in Stormwind, The Stockade and the
   Deeprun Tram, will have their spirits travel to the new graveyard
   at the Eastvale Logging Camp.
   A neutral graveyard has been added on the island of Caer Darrow
   in Western Plaguelands.  It will serve characters who die on
   Caer Darrow and in Scholomance. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added in the Eastern Plaguelands 
   near the northwestern shore of Blackwood Lake.  Characters that 
   die in The Fungal Vale will continue to use the Darrowshire 
   graveyard due to the mountains between it and the new graveyard.
   Additionally, characters dying in Stratholme will now use the
   new Blackwood Lake graveyard. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added in Feralas, just to the 
   southwest of Dire Maul. Characters dying in Dire Maul will use
   this new graveyard.
- Darkmoon Cards have been seen dropping from high level Humanoids
  around the world.Collect a set of them and bring them to the 
  Darkmoon Faire when it is in town!
- Several NPCs that were not marked as Civilians are now correctly 
  labeled.
- The "Human, Theramore" faction is now the "Theramore" faction.  This
  faction is allied with the Alliance and is at war with the Horde. 
- High Elves now have their own distinct faction  "Silvermoon Remnant".
  This faction is allied with the Alliance and is at war with the Horde.
  Not all High Elves are a part of this faction. 
- Several NPCs around the world are now associated with the proper 
  faction.
- Dimetradons in Un'Goro Crater should be found more regularly now.
- Fire Elementals in Searing Gorge should be easier to find.
- The pair of gryphons guarding the entrance to the Hinterlands have 
  finally decided to stop staring at one another and will now wander 
  around the entrance to the pass.
- Rashona Straglash was moved to be with other cloth-centric citizens
  in Orgrimmar.
- Dark Strand Cultist and Enforcers are now correctly labeled Humanoid.
- Morbent Fels level was slightly reduced to better fit the level 
  range of Duskwood. 
- Brinna Valanaar in Azshara now sells higher level arrows.
- Hadoken Swiftstrider of Camp Mojache, Feralas and Dinita Stonemantle
  in Ironforge received promotions; they are now significantly tougher 
  than before.
- Certain floating herbs, minerals, and chests should now be more down 
  to earth.
- The Barrens should now feel more alive.
- Sickly Gazelles now have a sickly look to them. 
- Jarven Thunderbrew in Kharanos warns players in Common now, and not
  in Dwarvish.
- The Wastewander Scufflaw of Tanaris now spells his own name 
  correctly. 
- Swift Green Raptor has been renamed to Swift Olive Raptor for clarity.
- An icon has been added at the Kalimdor continent map level for 
  Revantusk Village. 
- Revantusk Village will now have an arrow pointing in its direction 
  on the mini-map when you get close enough to it.
- Fixed some typos in Gilnid's text in The Deadmines.
- Fixed some typos in Supervisor Raelen's text in Elwynn Forest.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.5.1 (2005-06-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bug Fixes
- Fixed an assertion that was preventing Mac clients from playing in
  the battlegrounds and causing a memory leak on PCs when they did.
- Improved error reporting to give more useful information to 
  development.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.5.0 (2005-06-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds arrive!
  The Warsong Gulch and Alterac Valley battlegrounds are now available.  
  The Warsong Gulch entrances may be found in the northern Barrens near 
  the Mor'Shan Rampart (Horde) and south of Silverwing Outpost in 
  Ashenvale (Alliance).  The Alterac Valley entrances may be found east 
  of Sofera's Naze in Alterac (Horde), and in the Headlands of Alterac 
  (Alliance).

General
- Wands - The Shoot Wand ability is now a toggle. While active, it will 
  continue attacking with the equipped wand until some other action is 
  taken (movement, spellcasting, item use, etc...).
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Berserking (Troll Racial) - Updated tooltip to clarify ability only 
  usable following a melee critical.
- Hardiness (Orc Racial) - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to 
  ignore the additional resistance.
- It should no longer be possible to disarm traps created by friendly 
  players.

PvP
- Honor system
   Dishonorable kills - gained by killing a trivial Civilian NPC - now 
   has a negative impact on a player's honor. Enough dishonorable kills 
   will reduce a player's rank all the way to zero.
   Players may now see an "estimated contribution point value" in the 
   combat log for an honorable kill.  Note that this value does not 
   take diminishing returns against the same player into account, and 
   is therefore "estimated".
   "Team Contribution Points" has been renamed to "Honor"
   Added tooltips to the different elements of the Honor System UI.
   Players will see their last week's kill data in the "Last Week" 
   section of the Honor System UI even if they did not achieve the 25 
   honorable kills required to gain standing or rank.
   Fixed a bug where the PvP trinket rewards were not always removing 
   the effects they were designed to remove (e.g. Polymorph, Fear, 
   Stun).
- Sitting characters will now stand up immediately after an attack, 
  even if stunned.
- Players can no longer swap inventory gear while dueling.
- Dueling is now allowed within Everlook.

Hunters
- The Hunter Epic quest has had some of its Demonic Corrupters retuned. 
  It should also be noted that Hunters that attempt to bypass the 
  single player portion of the encounter by using another class to do 
  their tasks will fail the quest in a most glorious fashion.
- Tranquilizing Shot - Is now properly affected by Efficiency and Hawk 
  Eye talents.
- Unleashed Fury - Fixed a bug where the damage increase was lower than 
  stated in the tooltip.  It should now increase damage by the listed 
  amount.
- Growl - Rank 1 effect improved.
- Volley - Damage increased.
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Spirit Guides in Battlegrounds will now summon/resurrect your current 
  pet when the Hunter is resurrected.
- Unstabling dead pets no longer puts players into a degenerate state 
  where their pet only partially exists. Unstabled dead pets can now be 
  properly revived, and players can no longer train more pets than 
  their stable can hold.
- Fixed a bug where magic shots were missing too frequently when used 
  on a target with Blessing of Protection active.

Mages
- Mage Armor - Now has a new, unique icon.

Paladins
- Fixed a bug where a Hunter's magic shots were missing too frequently 
  when used on a target with Blessing of Protection active.

Priests
- Inner Fire - Now stacks with other effects that increase attack power 
  and armor.
- Holy Nova - Cooldown decreased.
- Feedback - Casting a higher rank of the spell will now replace an 
  existing, lower level effect.
- Unbreakable Will - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to ignore 
  the additional resistance.

Rogues
- Riposte - Fixed a bug where the ability was not usable against a 
  disarmed or unarmed target.
- Vanish - Should be a lot more responsive when used to avoid incoming 
  attacks.

Shaman 
- Fixed a bug where Fire Nova, Flametongue, Stoneclaw and Windfury 
  Totems had incorrect level caps when cast by higher level shaman.  
  All totems should now be summoned at the level of the caster.
- Flametongue Totem - Tooltip updated to clarify that only the 
  main-hand weapon is enchanted.
- Windfury Totem - Tooltip updated to clarify that only the main-hand 
  weapon is enchanted.
- Fire Resistance Totem - New icon.
- Frost Resistance Totem - New icon.
- Grounding Totem - Fixed a bug that allowed some area of effect spells 
  to be "grounded" and/or destroy the totem.

Warlocks
- Improved Drain Mana - Damage caused is now considered Shadow damage 
  and is no longer reduced by armor.
- Improved Voidwalker - Now increases all Voidwalker spells (now also 
  including Sacrifice) by 10/20/30%.
- Improved Succubus - Now increases Succubus spells by 10/20/30%.
- Master Summoner - In addition to decreasing casting time of summoning 
  the Imp, Voidwalker, Succubus and Felhunter, it now reduces mana cost 
  by 20/40%.
- Improved Enslave Demon - In addition to reducing the attack speed and 
  casting speed penalty of enslaved demons, it now reduces the resist 
  chance of Enslave Demon by 2/4/6/8/10%.
- Demonic Sacrifice - Is now instant cast.
- Improved Firestone - Now also improves the bonus Fire spell damage of 
  Firestones by 15/30%.
- Inferno - The summoned Infernal will now be enslaved for 5 minutes 
  before turning on its summoner.
- Drain Mana - Targets with no mana will no longer be valid for Drain 
  Mana (Rank 4), making it consistent with all other ranks of the spell.
- Improved Drain Mana - Damage caused by this talent is now improved by 
  the Shadow Mastery talent.
- Conflagrate - Range increased.
- Siphon Life - Is now instant cast, damage increased.
- Paranoia - No longer causes threat when cast.
- War Stomp (Doomguard) - Now has a maximum of 5 targets.
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Honorable kills will now generate a Soul Shard when Drain Soul and 
  Shadowburn are used.
- Spirit Guides in Battlegrounds will now resurrect your last Imp, 
  Voidwalker, Succubus or Felhunter.  If the Doomguard or Infernal were 
  the last active pet or the previous pet was killed before the Warlock, 
  an Imp will be summoned.
- Improved Curse of Agony - Fixed a bug where Curse of Agony (rank 1) 
  was not improved by the talent.  The talent will now work properly 
  with all ranks of Curse of Agony.

Warriors
- Overpower - Fixed a bug where the ability was sometimes blocked.
- Improved Cleave - Now increases damage bonus by 40/80/120%.
- Blood Craze - Talent design changed.  It now regenerates 1/2/3% of 
  the warrior's total health over 6 seconds after being the victim of a 
  critical strike.
- New Fury Talent: Dual Wield Specialization - Increases damage with 
  the off-hand weapon by 5/10/15/20/25%.  Note: the additional damage 
  also increases rage generation significantly.
- Iron Will - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to ignore the 
  additional resistance.
- Enrage - Increased the number of charges to 12.  Decreased the 
  duration to 12 seconds.  The new duration is the limiting factor for 
  slower weapons (e.g. Arcanite Reaper will typically get one less 
  swing), while dual wielding and faster weapons will make better use 
  of all of the charges over the duration of the ability.
- Concussion Blow - Changed to an instant, stunning attack and removed 
  the damage portion.
- Shield Specialization - In addition to increasing % chance to block, 
  it now gives the warrior a 20/40/60/80/100% chance to generate 1 rage 
  on a successful block.

Items
- The following item sets have had their statistics, effects, and set 
  bonuses updated:
- Arcanist, Netherwind, Prophecy, Transcendence, Felheart, Nemesis, 
  Cenarion, Stormrage, Nightslayer, Bloodfang, Giantstalker, 
  Dragonstalker, Earthfury, Ten Storms, Might, Wrath, Lawbringer, and 
  Judgement.
- Mature Blue Dragon Sinew and The Eye of Shadow can both now drop off 
  appropriate level demonic and blue dragonkin monsters. It should be 
  noted that both Lord Kazzak and Azuregos will guarantee a drop of the 
  aforementioned items but to get the items from the lesser creatures 
  will be a much rarer occurrence.
- Essence of Eranikus now has a poison cloud graphic around it when 
  used.
- Murloc Scale Belt and Breastplate recipes now are white items instead 
  of green since they are vendor bought.
- Gryphon Mail Gauntlets now have a proper inventory icon.
- Ogre Toothpick Shooter now uses the proper attack animation.
- Distracting Dagger now sheathes properly.
- Mountain Giants in Feralas now drop loot more appropriate to their 
  elite status.
- The Druid of the Claw quest in Teldrassil will now provide a weapon 
  choice more appropriate for low level Night Elves.
- The Dreadmist set now has a bonus for wearing all 8 pieces of the set.
- Cutthroat's Loincloth name changed to Cutthroat's Pants.
- Ritual Kilt name changed to Ritual Leggings.
- Felstriker effect's name changed to Felstriker to reflect the 
  previously patched item name change.
- Ogre Pocket Knife, Peacemaker, and Lok'delar, Stave of the Ancient 
  Keepers now sheathe properly.
- Dragonbreath Chili's effect visual fixed.
- The Oblivion's Touch wand properly shoots now.
- Deepstrider Tumors are now a 100% drop off Deepstrider sea giants 
  in Desolace.
- New art has been added for Nightslayer, Lawbringer, and 
  Beaststalker's item sets.
- The Arcanist Crown has updated art.

Professions
- New Engineering firework recipe added.
- Added leatherworking recipe for mid level blue bracers.
- Dragonbreath Chili proc rate has been reduced.
- Restorative Elixir name changed to Resorative Potion with potion 
  cooldown timer.  Functionality has been changed so it should be more 
  effective as it now dispels one harmful effect every 5 seconds for 
  30 seconds.
- Two new transporter recipes have been added, with one for gnomish and 
  one for goblin engineers.  Gnomish engineers can get their recipe 
  from Gadgetzan, Goblin engineers from Everlook.
- Tribal Leatherworkers who have restarted their profession are now 
  able to relearn the various Wild Leather patterns if they've already 
  completed the quests prior to restarting the profession. Speak with 
  Pratt McGrubben (Alliance) or Jangdor Swiftstrider (Horde) in Feralas 
  to relearn what you once knew!
- Small Throrium Veins now sometimes will have Emeralds or Diamonds.
- Engineering Vendors now sell Blacksmith's Hammers.
- Both types of the engineer made Jumper Cables now share a cooldown. 
  It was never intended to allow a player to use jumper cables XL and 
  jumper cables within the same period of time.
- Solid Dynamite was inadvertently broken in the 1.4 patch to require 
  harder materials than it should.  This has been fixed.
- Wicked Leather Bracers Plan is no longer bind on acquire.
- Jumper Cables no longer have a chance to break when they fail.
- Elemental Flux added to blacksmith vendors.

Raids & Dungeons
- Molten Core
   Firesworns that are moved too far away from Garr will now become 
   quite enraged until they move closer to Garr.
   The eruptions from the lava in Ragnaros's Lair will now always 
   happen while Ragnaros is in combat. However, these lava eruptions 
   occur less frequently, do less damage, and the damage they inflict 
   is now resistable.
   The maximum range of the Wrath of Ragnaros spell has been increased.
- Additional new raid items have been added to the treasure lists for 
  Azuregos, Lord Kazzak, and bosses in Molten Core.
- Onyxia - Fixed a bug that was causing Onyxia's Tail sweep to no 
  longer cause knockback.

Quests
- Searing Gorge has a new quest hub for both Alliance and Horde players 
  called Thorium Point. The supported level ranges are 45-52. Craftsmen 
  will be happy to know that the Thorium Brotherhood has opened up many 
  new opportunities to gain favor amongst their clan (even for level 
  60 players).
- The Hinterlands has a new Horde quest hub known as Revantusk Village, 
  located on the eastern coastline. Horde players level 44-52 are 
  encouraged to visit Revantusk Village and assist the Revantusk with 
  their myriad problems and tasks!
- All members of both the Horde and Alliance are reporting low 
  stockpiles of various textile resources!  Donations of cloth are now 
  being accepted in the following locations: Darnassus, Stormwind, and 
  Ironforge for the Alliance; Orgrimmar, Undercity, and Thunder Bluff 
  for the Horde.  Seek out an official Cloth Quartermaster for more 
  information.
- Several quests have been added to Feralas for level 45-52 characters.
- Krueg Skullsplitter has moved from Thousand Needles to a more 
  appropriate location at Camp Mojache in Feralas.
- Highlord Demitrian is back! For those players unraveling the 
  mysteries of Thunderaan, you may once more speak with the Highlord.
- Dwarven Priests may now undertake the Molten Core discovery quest; 
  "Attunement to the Core." By fixing this bug, we had to open the 
  quest to all players once more. If you have already done the quest, 
  you will not be required to do it again in order to access the Molten 
  Core via the portal.
- Highlord Bolvar Fordragon should no longer despawn when "The Great 
  Masquerade" is activated.
- Characters on the "A Strange Historian" quest are now correctly 
  prompted to find Chromie in the northwest corner of Andorhal, where 
  she and the ruined inn have been moved to.
- The Gordok Courtyard Key and the Gordok Inner Door Key are now zone 
  bound items.  These items only exist within the Dire Maul zone 
  instance, and players will lose these keys from their inventory if 
  they leave the zone.
- Everyone's favorite Alliance quest, "Deep Ocean, Vast Sea" now gives 
  a substantial coin reward in addition to the choice of item.
- Rage Scar Yetis in Feralas no longer give the quest item for the 
  "Mark of Quality" quest.
- Completing the "Mark of Quality" quest now gives Darnassus and 
  Thunder Bluff faction increase where appropriate.
- Merideth Carlson should only hand out her free horse feed now to 
  people who have already completed the quest for it.
- The "Unfinished Gordok Business" quest has been fixed to allow 
  certain Human Priests access to it who had difficulty previously.
- Sea Elementals and Sea Sprays in Feralas should now be giving out 
  the proper version of Oglethorpe's distress beacon.
- The end of the Paladin Epic Mount quest "Grimand's Finest Work" now 
  makes it clearer that Lord Shadowbreaker's acquisition of the 
  Arcanite Barding is only temporary.
- Jeziba in the Ruins of Andorhal now faces the correct direction when 
  pointing to his Catalogue of the Wayward.
- Fraggar Thundermantle now correctly tells you to return to him, and 
  not his evil, two-eyed twin, Frobe Thundermantle when completing the 
  Skull Rock Clean-up quest.
- The Branch of Cenarius no longer drops off of Prince Raze. It now 
  properly only drops off of Geltharis for the quest, The Branch of 
  Cenarius.
- Failed quests will now indicate (Failed) in the quest log so it is 
  easier to see them.
- Typos fixed in the Paladin Epic Mount quests.

User Interface
- Innkeepers around the world now have a gossip option that lets you 
  join a meeting stone directly from the innkeeper rather than going to 
  the location of the meeting stone. Also these Innkeepers will now 
  have background lore about each of the dungeons.
- Levels Required for meeting stones have been increased. The intent is 
  that a group will not receive party members from a meeting stone that 
  don't really have a chance of completing the dungeon.
- Meeting Stones have had their rules for what players are grouped with 
  what other players relaxed. This means groups who use meeting stones 
  (or innkeepers) should have their groups formed much more quickly 
  than they were previously.
- Pets of other party members will now display in the party UI. You can 
  see pet health and harmful effects on the pet. You can turn this
  functionality on and off in the Interface Options menu.
- Players can now target other players in a raid by clicking on their 
  name in the raid window. Additional Raid UI improvements coming soon.
- Added visual effects for healing power and spell power enchantments.
- Your main action bar now displays the number of the bar that you are 
  currently displaying.
- In Master Looter mode, items are no longer opened up for looting by 
  all party members after the round-robin looter closes their loot 
  window. The Loot Master always distributes items over the loot 
  threshold.
- Rolling on items while charmed/hexed/etc. now works, as does /random 
  and receiving items from the master looter.
- When a player dies in an instance and then uses the spirit healer, 
  the body in the instance now turns to bones.
- Players can no longer mail or auction an item that they've just 
  disenchanted.
- When a ghost player is resurrected into an instance that has become 
  full, they no longer come to life wherever their ghost happens to be 
  standing. Instead, they get ported to the closest graveyard.
- Players must now bind a bind-on-equip bag to put in into a purchased 
  bank bag slot.
- Items split from stacks can now be dropped directly into (or onto) 
  bank bags without any mysterious error messages.
- Added a "Maximize" windowed video option which will maximize the game 
  window and remove the borders for a fullscreen experience which 
  allows popup windows.
- Trying to use a hearthstone, consumable, etc. while logging out now
  displays a more appropriate message: "Another action is in progress."
- The login interface files are now checked to make sure they haven't 
  been tampered with or corrupted. This is to improve account security 
  in public game rooms.
- Added the function TargetNearestPartyMember() to the UI scripting 
  system.

World Environment
- The Thorium Brotherhood faction is now peaceful - players cannot go 
  to war with them.
- The Wildhammer Clan in the Hinterlands is now a peaceful faction to 
  the Alliance, meaning Alliance players cannot intentionally declare 
  war on them.
- A new graveyard has been added near the east coast of the Hinterlands 
  at the Overlook Cliffs.
- The two Hinterlands graveyards are now using a system that will 
  ensure that the spirits of dead characters go to the closest 
  graveyard.
- Buliwyf Stonehand, the dwarven weapon master in Ironforge, now 
  properly tells you about the weapons that Woo Ping can train you in, 
  instead of talking about himself. He does like going on about his 
  own martial prowess.
- Krinkle Goodsteel of Gadgetzan submitted a complaint to the local 
  Repairer's Union and has had his ability to repair durability 
  reinstated.
- Brave Wildrunner of Bloodhoof Village in Mulgore no longer patrols 
  through the kodo mounts.
- Added new load screens for Deadmines, Wailing Caverns, Uldaman, 
  Razorfen Downs, and Zul Farrak.
- Discovering Valor's Rest now also pops the Southwind Village puzzle 
  piece on the Silithus area map.
- Many of the Swift Mounts have gained eye glows and some have had 
  other tweaks made to them to improve their looks.
- Additional mithril nodes have been added in Un'Goro crater
- Genavie Callow in Undercity is now properly on the Undercity faction.
- The Grow effect that Bom'bay in Sen'jin Village would sometimes cast 
  on characters was reduced from 100% to 50% growth.
- The Lazy Peons in The Valley of Trials now make a wood chopping sound 
  when they are hacking at the trees.
- The Dark Summoners of the Eastern Plaguelands have finally fully 
  materialized and are no longer ghostly in appearance.
- In Silverpine Forest on Fenris Island, moved a Rot Hide Plague 
  Weaver's spawn point from inside a tree.
- Neeka Bloodscar of Kargath no longer speaks as if she is in the 
  Barrens.

Flight Paths
- New Horde Flight Paths
   Valormok in Azshara - Bloodvenom Post in Felwood
   Kargath in Badlands - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Flame Crest in Burning Steppes - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Tarren Mill in Hillsbrad - Revantusk Village in Hinterlands
   Undercity - Revantusk Village in Hinterlands
- New Alliance Flight Paths
   Ironforge - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Morgan's Vigil in the Burning Steppes - Thorium Point in Searing 
   Gorge
- The flight path from Undercity to Kargath no longer clips into the 
  ground just south of Dalaran.

Bug Fixes
- Fixed bug causing all tailoring recipes to show up as "orange"


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.2 (2005-05-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Fixed an infrequent crash bug which occurred during certain 
  database queries.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.1 (2005-05-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Added minimum level requirements to all instances to prevent 
  exploitive behavior. The minimum levels are very generous and should
  not affect the normal course of gameplay.
- Fixed a number of disconnect problems.
- Fixed a bug where periods would appear as commas.
- Fixed a font issue that could cause distortion of game text.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.0 (2005-04-19)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PvP Honor System 
  The Player versus Player Honor System is now active. Players will be 
  able to gain rankings based on their PvP performance, with lucrative 
  rewards for those who distinguish themselves on the field of battle! 
  Read more about the PvP Honor system. 
  
Children's Week 
  Children's Week is celebrated in Orgrimmar and Stormwind City at the 
  start of May and lasts for a week. It is a time to give back to the 
  innocents of war: the orphans! 
  
Gurubashi Arena event 
  There is now a regular event in Gurubashi Arena in Stranglethorn 
  Vale. Every three hours starting at midnight, a pirate with too 
  much treasure on his hands will drop a chest in the center of the 
  arena. Whoever can open the chest first gets the contents! Of course, 
  the arena is a PvP Free for All area, so there might be other players 
  who are trying to open it first... 
 
Elemental invasions! 
  Invasions by elementals at different locations on Kalimdor have 
  reportedly been occurring sporadically every few days. Concerned 
  adventurers should investigate Silithus, Un'Goro Crater, Azshara, 
  and Winterspring to counter these incursions. 

General 
- Charm and Polymorph mechanics can now be reactively countered by 
  spells and abilities (e.g. Druid Shapeshifting will now cancel 
  Polymorph effects). 
- Mana regeneration is now disrupted when a spell has completed casting 
  rather than at the start of casting. It will resume normally five 
  seconds after the last spell cast. This change increases the total 
  time spent regenerating mana and therefore increases the total 
  contribution from Spirit for mana-based classes. 
- Level 60 mounts purchased at vendors now have a whole new look. 
  Faster undead mounts already have a different look and so have not 
  changed. The new mounts can be seen standing near the mount vendors. 
  If you have one of the old fast mounts, you can exchange it for one 
  with a new look at the mount vendor. 
- Healing-over-time spells should now be improved by "+Healing" items 
  when cast on other players. 
- Mind Controlled characters will no longer receive a durability 
  penalty when they die. 
- When a non-Hunter resurrects a pet, the pet will no longer receive 
  resurrection sickness. 

PvP 
- A handful of spells were added to the list of spells subject to 
  diminishing returns in PvP. It is our goal to set as few spells as 
  possible to be diminished. We've identified this short list of spells
  as having durations and cooldowns sufficient to almost permanently 
  slow or immobilize targets but without adequate controls or other 
  limiting factors. When a spell with diminishing returns is used 
  against a target in PvP, the first effect has full duration. On the 
  second use of the same category of spell (e.g. slowing), that spell's 
  duration is reduced by 50%. On the third use, the duration is reduced 
  by 75%. On the fourth attempt, the target becomes immune to the 
  spell. Spells must be used on the same target within 15 seconds of the 
  *end* of the duration in order to be diminished. In other words, if a 
  target hasn't had a slowing spell active on them for more than 15 
  seconds, the next slowing spell will have full effect. The list of 
  affected spells is: 
    Frost Shock 
    Entangling Roots 
    Frost Nova 
- Guard directions, signs and signposts have been added to point you 
  toward the PvP Officer Lounges in Stormwind City (Champions' Hall) 
  and Orgrimmar (Hall of Legends). 
 
Racial Traits 
- Blood Fury - Now increases base melee attack power by 25% for 15 
  seconds. When it fades base melee attack power is reduced by 25% for 
  45 seconds. 
- Perception - Increased detection bonus. 
- Berserking - Is now usable after being the target of a critical hit. 
  Increases melee, ranged and spell casting speed by 25% but increases 
  all damage taken by 10% for the duration. 
 
Druids 
- Ravage and Shred now properly increase the attack power contribution 
  by the percent modifier. 
- Shapeshifting into an animal form will now remove Polymorph effects. 
- Feral Charge - Fixed a bug where the ability cost 10 rage instead of 
  five as intended. Should now cost five rage. 
- Entangling Roots - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered an immobilizing effect. 

Hunters 
- A new Hunter epic quest series is now in the game and waiting to be 
  found. 
- Scatter Shot (Talent) - Now usable while moving and no longer 
  interrupts ranged combat. Now properly reduces the ranged attack 
  power contribution by the percent modifier. 
- Highland Striders no longer have Cower (Rank 3) when tamed. 
- New Pet Ability: Dive - Increases movement speed for a short 
  duration. 
- New Pet Ability: Dash - Increases movement speed for a short duration. 
- Freezing Trap - Visual changed. 
- Track Hidden - Increased stealth detection. 
- Scorpid Sting - Fixed a bug where it was not considered a poison. It 
  can now be removed by poison curing effects. 
- Aspect of the Cheetah/Pack - These Aspects will now be canceled when 
  mounted. 
- Viper Sting - This spell can no longer be used on warrior and rogue 
  targets. In addition, while it can be used on a druid target at any 
  time it will only drain mana when the druid is in caster form. 

Mages 
- Amplify Magic and Dampen Magic effects should now replace each other 
  properly. 
- Improved Scorch (Talent) - Redesign. Scorch spells have a 
  20/40/60/80/100% chance to cause your target to be vulnerable to Fire 
  damage. This vulnerability increases the Fire damage dealt to your 
  target by 2% and can be stacked up to 5 times for a total of 10% 
  increased Fire damage. 
- New Spell: Arcane Brilliance (available at level 56 - Loot) - Infuses 
  the target's party with brilliance, increasing their Intellect. 
- Improved Mana Shield - Design changed. Instead of increasing the 
  amount absorbed, it now decreases the mana lost per point of damage 
  taken by 10/20%. 
- An error message is now displayed if you try to use Blink on boats 
  and zeppelins. 
- Wand Specialization - Fixed a bug where the damage increase with this 
  talent was higher than the listed amount. 
- Frost Nova - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered an immobilizing effect. 
- Pyroblast and Fireball damage over time will now stack together. 

Paladins 
- Seal of Wisdom and Seal of Light should now replace each other 
  properly as well as stack properly when used by different paladins. 
- Paladin Epic Mount quest added. To begin, talk to the paladin 
  trainers Duthroian Rall or Brandur Ironhammer. 
- Paladins who have completed their Epic Mount quest can repeat the 
  final event in Scholomance for fun (and loot) by speaking with Lord 
  Grayson Shadowbreaker. 
- Sanctity Aura - Fixed a bug where the spell/talent was unlearned 
  after logging out if learned before level 40. 
- Resistance Auras - Paladins should now be able to switch from a 
  resistance aura to any other resistance aura without canceling the 
  current one first. 
- Improved Seal of Justice - Fixed a bug that caused the talent to 
  have no effect. It will now increase the frequency that the stun 
  effect will land. 

Priests 
- A new Priest epic quest series is now in the game and waiting to 
  be found. 
- Levitate - Duration and mana cost increased. 
- Touch of Weakness - Should now be affected by the Blackout, Darkness, 
  Force of Will, Shadow Focus, Shadow Weaving and Silent Resolve 
  talents. 
- Starshards - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting, Force of
  Will, and Silent Resolve talents. 
- Holy Fire - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting talent. 
- Mind Flay - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting talent. 
- Desperate Prayer - Should now be affected by the Holy Specialization 
  talents. 
- Vampiric Embrace - Active icon tooltip rewritten to be more clear. 
- Holy Nova - Now causes an explosion of holy light around the caster, 
  causing Holy damage to all enemy targets within 10 yards and healing 
  all party members within 10 yards. These effects now cause no threat 
  as opposed to reducing threat temporarily. 
- Holy Fire - Several changes were made to Holy Fire in an effort to 
  make this a more usable and efficient damage spell. The cast time was 
  reduced from five seconds to four seconds, which reduces the damage 
  caused. Therefore, the damage was increased and more of the spell's 
  potency was shifted into the damage-over-time portion. The duration 
  was also increased and mana cost and cooldown were both decreased. 
  While the direct damage portion was reduced slightly from the 
  previous version, each tick of damage should be unchanged, and the 
  spell now delivers one additional tick of damage. In total, the 
  relative damage and efficiency of the spell has been increased. 
- Wand Specialization - Fixed a bug where the damage increase with this 
  talent was too high. 

Rogues 
- Combo points will no longer be removed if the target is deselected. 
  They will only be removed if a different target is selected. 
- Fixed a bug where combo points were not always being applied to the 
  target when using Cheap Shot, Ambush and Garrote. 
- Vanish - Increased stealth bonus. 
- Ambush, Backstab, Ghostly Strike, and Riposte now properly increase 
  the attack power contribution by the percent modifier. 
- The Kick ability prevents the target from casting spells in the same 
  school when channeled casting is interrupted. 
- If using Gouge triggers the Stormshroud Armor lightning effect, the 
  Gouge effect will no longer be instantly interrupted. 
- The Rogue trainers will now point the player to an appropriate area 
  with boxes to unlock depending on the lockpicking skill of the player. 
- Preparation - Will now clear the cooldown of the Blade Flurry ability. 
- Riposte - Fixed a bug that prevented the ability from being used when 
  the target had no weapon or was already disarmed. 
 
Shaman 
- Earth Shock - The visual for ranks two through seven has been changed 
  to be consistent with rank one. 
- Windfury - Fixed a bug that caused an additional attack beyond what 
  was intended. In addition, fixed a bug that caused the next normal 
  melee attack to happen sooner than intended. 
- Level 58+ Shaman should talk to Sagorne Creststrider in Orgrimmar; 
  there is a special quest for them involving a dreaded death knight 
  who dwells in the depths of the Scholomance. 
- Frost Shock - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered a slowing effect. 
- Grounding Totem - Should no longer redirect area effect spells or 
  be destroyed by area effects spells. 
 
Warlocks 
- Warlock Epic Mount quest added. To begin, speak with a demon trainer 
  in any of the capital cities: Kurgal, Martha Strain, Spackle 
  Thornberry, or Jubahl Corpseeker. 
- The Warlock Infernal quest is now available and can be found in 
  Felwood. 
- The Warlock Ritual of Doom quest is now available and can be found in
  the Tainted Scar. 
- The succubus model has been updated. 
- Paranoia (Felhunter) - Increased stealth detection. 
- Seduction (Succubus) - Is now considered a Fear effect for purposes 
  of diminishing returns. 

Warriors 
- Thunder Clap - Visual and animation changed. 

Items 
- The following set items have had their art updated: 
- Devout Crown and Mantle, Magister's Crown, Circlet of Prophecy, all 
  parts of the Warrior "Might" set, Lightforge Helm, Helm of Valor, 
  Dreadmist Mask, Wildheart Cowl and Pauldrons, and Coif of Elements. 
  Other class sets will receive updated art in future patches. 
- Random world items that had increased healing effects were 
  mislabeled, and the amount of increased healing appeared to be half 
  of what was actually occurring. The amount shown on the item is now 
  an accurate representation of the healing increase. 
- The Celestial Orb and Robe of the Archmage will no longer trigger 
  the cooldowns of a Mage's mana gems. Mana gems are now on their own 
  unique cooldown category. 
- Tiny Black Whelping item changed to Dark Whelpling to reflect the 
  name of the creature summoned. 
- Fixed a typo in the aura description for the Mighty Rage potion. 
- +Spell damage and +Healing effects have been increased in 
  effectiveness to make them more attractive to players. Effects that 
  increased damage and healing done by all magical spells received the 
  largest increase, especially if the previous amount was small. We 
  also fixed a couple bugs relating to these effects. 
- Pimgib's Collar is now unique. 
- Frayed Abomination Stichings are now considered to be uncommon items. 
- Fordring's Seal has been improved with additional Stamina and 
  Intellect. 
- Ring of Protection's armor has been lowered, but the ring's Stamina 
  has been increased. 
- Voodoo Band has been slightly improved. 
- Underworld Band is no longer unique. 
- Filling jars of ooze no longer puts you into combat. 
- The Rod of the Ogre Magi properly sheathes now. 
- hanged the tooltip of the Bloodfang Hood's effect to properly 
  indicate the duration of the stun. 
- The Demon Forged Breastplate effect no longer requires channeling. 
- Tooltips for the Blazefury Medallion, Storm Gauntlets, Fiery Plate 
  Gauntlets Blessed Sunfruit, Blessed Sunfruit Juice, and ragged John's 
  Neverending Cup modified to more appropriately describe their effects. 
- The Amberseal Keeper's melee DPS has been reduced, but an additional 
  +Spell Damage effect has been added instead. 
- Onyxia Hide Backpacks are now 18 slot containers. 
- Warstrike Shoulder Pads have been improved. 
- Living Leggings, Breastplate, and Shoulders now have Stamina, but had 
  their Nature Resistance lowered. 
- Legplates and Legguards of the Chromatic Defier have been improved. 
- The drop rate of Essence of Undead has been lowered. 
- The drop rate for Gift of the Wild and Prayer of Fortitude has been 
  considerably increased. 
- General Drakkisath will now drop 2-4 Blood of the Black Dragon 
  Champion instead of 1. 

Professions 
- A significant number of additional engineering devices have been 
  added to the world both as new recipes on vendors and as drops on 
  monsters in the higher level (50+) dungeons and in raids. 
- Seven new blacksmithing recipes are available to seasoned 
  blacksmiths via a series of turn-in quests. 
- Three new armorsmithing recipes are available to master armorsmiths. 
  All 3 recipes are gained via quest. 
- The Turtle Scale gloves recipe has been changed to have a white name 
  rather than green since it can now be purchased at the store. 
  Generally, recipes with white names are store-bought and ones with 
  green or blue (or purple) names are drops from monsters. 
- Some Blasting Powder icons Changed. 
- Leatherworkers can now make throwing balls (as a toy). 
- Ghostweave Belt pattern is no longer bind on acquire. 
- Randal Worth in Stormwind now only teaches apprentice level 
  leatherworking. 
- Expert Blacksmithing Trainers will now point you to the appropriate 
  artisan smith when you get a high enough skill. 
- Bombs now cause a disorient effect when they go off, this was not 
  working correctly previously. 
- Flame Deflector and Frost Deflector now do an elemental damage absorb 
  rather than a resistance increase. 
- Minor Recombobulator now restores health and mana as well as removing 
  polymorph effects. 
- Target Dummies now generate an initial taunt pulse so creatures will 
  attack them for the first 5 seconds after they are dropped. 
- Gnomish Death Ray damage increased slightly and cooldown reduced to 
  5 minutes. 
- The level of the Mechanical Dragonlings, Battlechicken, and Bombs 
  dropped by the Goblin Bomb Dropper now scale with your engineering 
  skill, so they will be always useful against enemies. Their damage 
  and health has remained the same. 
- Requirements to make the Helm of Fire were reduced. 

Raids & Dungeons 
- Azuregos now has a new ability - Mark of Frost. A player who is hit 
  with the Mark of Frost will be temporarily frozen in a block of ice 
  should they attempt to re-engage Azuregos. Mark of Frost is extremely 
  powerful and will persist through death and resurrection. 
- Bael'gar, Lord Incendius, and Golem Lord Argelmach are now slightly 
  lower level than previously. This will provide a much better 
  progression of creature and boss levels in Blackrock Depths. 
- The Baroness Anastari encounter has been changed. Players who become 
  unpossessed will now have full health, and after the Baroness 
  unpossesses a player there will be a much longer cooldown before she 
  can cast possess again. These changes should make her a more balanced 
  encounter for a 5 man group. 
- Lava Surgers no longer respawn once you kill Garr. 
- When Majordomo Executus submits, a chest is spawned next to him. This 
  chest should only spawn the FIRST time he is defeated in a saved 
  instance. If a guild tries him a second or third night, no chest 
  should spawn. 
- Ragnaros now stays up 2 hours rather than 1 after being summoned. 
- The Golemagg and Shazzrah encounters in the Molten Core has undergone 
  some changes. 
- Scholomance Itemization 
   * 20 new Rare items have been added to Scholomance. 
   * Several Uncommon items have been upgraded to Rare quality. 
   * Rattlegore, Jandice Barov, and Lord Alexei Barov will now always 
     drop at least one Rare item. 
   * Ras Frostwhisper will always drop at least two Rare items. 
- Stratholme Itemization 
   * 26 new Rare items have been added to Stratholme. 
   * Several Uncommon items have been upgraded to Rare quality. 
   *Archivist Galford, Baroness Anastasi, Nerub'enkan, and Maleki the 
    Pallid will now always drop at least one Rare item. 
- Raid Itemization 
   * Onyxia, Azuregos, Lord Kazzak, and all Molten Core boss creatures 
     have all received some new items on their loot tables. 
   * Onyxia will once again drop two upper tier class set helms. 
   * Most of the non-class set items that dropped from Molten Core and 
     Onyxia have had their effective levels increased, resulting in 
     higher DPS weapons, and/or better stats and effects. 
   * Players who defeat the Majordomo Executus encounter will now be 
     rewarded with new epic items. This reward will only be granted the 
     first time the encounter is defeated during the 6 day lifespan of 
     a Molten Core instance. 
   * The loot tables for some of the Molten Core bosses have been 
     improved so they drop an additional epic item per kill. 
   * World bosses such as Onyxia, Azuregos, and Lord Kazzak will no 
     longer drop random blue items of a level lower than 50. 
   * Prior to this patch, Molten Core boss creatures could drop items 
     from one of two different tiered sets for every character class. 
     The loot tables have been changed so Molten Core bosses will now 
     only drop items from the lower tier class sets. However, some of 
     the items from those sets were not previously dropping in Molten 
     Core. These missing class set items will now drop in Molten Core, 
     allowing players to complete their lower tier class sets. The 
     higher tier class set pieces that once dropped in Molten Core will 
     be found once again in Blackwing Lair, the next raiding zone 
     scheduled for release in a future patch. 
   * Future patches will include even more item rewards for these raid 
     encounters, as well as improvements to the statistics, effects, 
     and set bonuses for both tiers of the raid armor sets. 
  
Quests 
- Party quest share information is now working. If you mouse over a 
  quest that multiple party members have, it will display a mouseover 
  tooltip indicating what nearby party member are on that quest. Also, 
  to the left of the quest name in your quest log it will list a 
  number in parenthesis indicating how many other players in your party 
  have that quest. 
- Quest givers who have repeatable quests now display with a blue 
  question mark over their head instead of the standard yellow 
  exclamation point/question mark. 
- The Molten Core discovery quest has had its objective moved from 
  inside the Molten Core to Blackrock Depths. 
- Lunaclaw's spirit should stay around longer before despawning, and 
  the spirit should simply despawn as oppose to "die". 
- The description text for both the Horde and Alliance versions of the 
  "Rabine Saturna" quest have been clarified. 
- The reward text for the "Hive in the Tower" quest has been clarified. 
- Fixed the Resonite Crystal not spawning in the Stonetalon Quest 
  "Earthen Arise." 
- Kinelory in Arathi Highlands is now PvP-enabling, so Horde players 
  who attack her will be flagged for PvP. 
- Quickened Ana'thek the Cruel's (quest target in Stranglethorn) 
  respawn rate. He and his entourage now spawn every 5-8 minutes. 
- Removed Stormwind Faction reward from the Greenwarden quest line in 
  the Wetlands. 
- The time Decrepit Guardians stay spawned (they're the mobs trapping 
  the Annals of Darrowshire in Andorhal) increased from 1 minute to 2 
  minutes. 
- The elementals in the plaguelands no longer attack the Spectral 
  Defenders. 
- The "haunting" radius of Pamela's doll pieces in Darrowshire was 
  reduced. You must now be closer to a doll piece before ghosts appear. 
- Increased the respawn time of Mok'rash in Stranglethorn Vale from 9 
  hours to 2 hours on average. 
- Fixed a bug that caused Razzle in Dun Morogh to become 
  non-interactable. 
- Added text to the Fresh Zhevra Carcass to clarify it's use in the 
  Ishamuhale quest. 
- Typos in various quests have been corrected. 

User Interface 
- Temporary weapon enchantments will now display as buff icons to the 
  right of your normal buff icons. 
- Recipes you already know will not show up in the auction listing if 
  "Usable Items" is checked. 
- The mouseover UI in the bottom right corner will no longer overlay 
  the extra action bars if you have them up. 
- If the subject line is not filled in when you put an item in a piece 
  of mail, it will automatically be filled in with the item being sent. 
- Mousing over the interface options menu will no longer count as a 
  mouseover on objects underneath the interface window (Thus making it 
  hard to set your chat windows to be fully transparent among other 
  things). 
  
World Environment 
- Andorhal has been overhauled to improve framerate, navigability, and 
  monster spawns. 
- Repositioned quest spawns in light of new city layout (tower marker 
  indicators, silos, etc.). 
- Doubled the number of small lockboxes present for the "Counting Out 
  Time" quest. 
- Araj should now spawn as a result of destroying the crystals in the 
  towers of Andorhal. 
- Kardris Dreamseeker is now being addressed properly as a female, 
  rather than a male. 
- There are new load screens for the Stratholme, Scholomance and 
  Blackrock Depths instances. Additionally, many of the previous load 
  screens throughout the world have been replaced with new art. Enjoy! 
- Bloodvenom Post - Crossroads (Horde) no longer flies you through a 
  tree. Sorry for the scrapes and bruises. 
- Shalzaru's Lair on the Isle of Dread off the coast of Feralas now 
  properly displays its name when you enter the cave. 
- The dragon bones just to the southwest of The Swarming Pillar in 
  Silithus have been named the Bones of Grakkarond. 
- The levels of the NPCs in Camp Mojache have been raised to be 
  commensurate with their counterparts at Feathermoon Stronghold. 
- Patrolling scouts that can see through stealth and invisibility 
  have been added to Darnassus, Stormwind City, Undercity and Thunder 
  Bluff. 
- The range of restock time for Argent Dawn vendors has been widened. 
- Cairne Bloodhoof is now a little more talkative. 
- High Priest Rohan is now properly associated with the Ironforge 
  faction. 
- Grimand Elmore in Stormwind is more talkative. 
- Town Criers in all the major cities now have basic gossip text. 
- More references to the fictitious locale of "Chillwind Point" have 
  been squashed in favor of the very real "Chillwind Camp". 
- Players will no longer get stuck in a location in the Ruins of 
  Eldarath in Azshara. 
- Fires in Thunder Axe Fortress in Desolace now have proper names. 
- No longer a tree floating off the ground in the Sishir Canyon area 
  of the Stonetalon Mountains. 
- There is no longer a floating tree in Westfall above the defias 
  tower. 
- There are no longer fish flying around above the water line in 
  Silverpine Forest. 
- Female orcs no longer get stuck in scaffolding in Lost Rigger Cove. 
- Removed a crate that was clipping through a tent/hut in Coldridge 
  Valley. 
- Removed the terrain that popped in and out of the crevice in the 
  entrance to Foothold Citadel on Theramore Isle. 
- Properly named the intact watchtower near Southshore. 
- The Rainsticks sign in Thunderbluff is no longer floating. 
- Removed floating object from Nijel's Point in Desolace. 
- Removed an invisible collision wall located in the Barrens near 
  the Bramblescar area. 
- Players can no longer kill creatures with ranged attacks while the 
  mobs are unable to damage the player when standing atop the cauldrons 
  in Eastern Plaguelands. 
- Closed a hole in the world in the Searing Gorge. 
- There is no longer a hole in the world at Dun Garok. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Dire Maul meeting stone has 
  been properly assigned. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Temple of Atal'Hakkar Meeting 
  Stone has been properly assigned. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Blackrock Spire Meeting Stone
  has been properly assigned. 
- There is no longer a hole in the world in Raven Hill, Duskwood. 
- A tree located too far above the ground in Feralas has been 
  "replanted". 
- The dock on the Forgotten Coast in Feralas is no longer partially 
  floating above the ground. 
- There is no longer water missing from the pool by the Grimtotems 
  in the Lower Wilds of Feralas. 
- A rock that was sitting above the ground at the top of one of the 
  falls in Nighthaven has landed. 
- Players no longer will get stuck in a location at Gurubashi Arena 
  in Stranglethorn Vale. 
- Major Mana potions buy/sell price slightly increased. 
- Aggro radius of Bears and Wolves in Silverpine have been reduced. 
- The Dry times in Ironforge have ended and the Stonefire Tavern in 
  Ironforge now has alcohol again. 
- Fixed a grammatical error in one of Captain Kromcrush's yells in 
  Dire Maul. 
- Mizzle the Crafty in Dire Maul shouldn't be so repetitive in 
  proclaiming a new king if the player cycles through gossip too 
  quickly. 
- Williden Marshal's gossip text has been polished. 

Macs 
- The keyboard shortcut to quit the game has been changed to 
  Command-Option-Q to work around an issue with PowerBooks. 
 
Bug Fixes 
- Fixed a bug where weapon skills were inappropriately capped at 5 
  times level. Characters should now gain benefit from weapon skill 
  bonuses beyond their normal cap. 
- Fixed portrait creation while alt-tabbed away from the game. 
- Fixed sorting items in the auction house by current bid. 
- Blessing of Sacrifice only transfers the damage dealt, up to the 
  maximum listed in the tooltip. 
- The "created by" tags are visible again when you inspect someone. 
- Effects that indicated that they increased damage and healing by 
  all magical spells were actually not improving healing. They now 
  will properly increase healing by the listed the amount. 
- Extra attacks gained from spells and abilities are applied 
  immediately and do not affect normal combat swing time. 
- Abilities which do an additional percentage of weapon damage now 
  include attack power as part of the base weapon damage. 
- Fixed race condition where damage would sometimes be applied after 
  Ice Block or Divine Shield are activated. 
- Ranged attacks use the target's defense skill instead of target's 
  level to determine chance to hit. 
- Fixed bug where ranged attackers would run up and engage you in 
  melee combat. 
- Pets and summons will now go with you if you use a hearthstone or 
  other long range teleport. 
- Fixed mouse selection bug when opening bags while the auction 
  interface is open. 
- There is no longer water missing on the shore of Jademir Lake in 
  Oneiros in Feralas. 
- Fixed a typo in the tooltip for the Field Repair Bot 74A. 
- Fixed the geometry of the Branchclaw gloves. 
- Lost Souls will now drop their Wispy Cloaks and Tormented Spirits 
  will drop their Ghostly Bracers every time they die now. 
- Whistle of the Mottled Red Raptor's buff icon now lists the mount 
  as being a Mottled Red Raptor instead of a Crimson Raptor. 
- Ancona creature name changed to Ancona Chicken. 
- The wording of item resistance enchantments has been made more 
  consistent. 
- Roast Raptor now has an more appropriate inventory sound. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.2 (2005-04-04)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Version 1.3.2 is a Mac OS X only patch.
- the Vertex Animation Shader feature is disabled for GPU's such as
  the Radeon 8500,9000, and 9200 series.  We expect to re-enable this
  functionality in a future patch.
- New code optimizations were added to improve frame rate and reduce
  memory usage.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.1 (2005-03-24)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- We have fixed a crash bug that would happen infrequently when
  teleporting.
- We have fixed a UI error that could occur in certain zones.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.0 (2005-03-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diremaul
  Diremaul, a new dungeon for players level 56-60, is now open and
  ready for business. Diremaul is populated by a fierce tribe of ogres
  and is located in the western region of Feralas. Diremaul will be
  limited groups of no more than five players each.
 
New Outdoor Raid Bosses
  Two new outdoor raid bosses have been introduced to Azeroth. 
  Azuregos, a monstrous blue dragon, has landed in Azshara, while
  Lord Kazzak the demon can be found in the Tainted Scar of the Blasted
  Lands. 
 
Meeting Stones
  Meeting Stones are located outside of each dungeon to help players 
  find a group to adventure with in the dungeon. The meeting stone will 
  try to find you a viable five-person group by looking for a tank, a 
  healer, and so on. As time passes and you are unable to find a group, 
  the meeting stone will become less picky about who it groups you with.

Dungeon Player Caps
  All dungeons now have a cap on group size to limit the number of 
  players that may enter the dungeon. It was necessary to add this cap
  as raiding these dungeons trivialized much of the content. Because of
  this change we can now look to adding better loot to them during future
  content patches.

  With that in mind, the dungeons below now have the following caps:
  Onyxia/Molten Core - 40 members
  Blackrock Spire - 15 members
  Diremaul -  5 members
  All other dungeons in the game will be capped at 10 members.
  Several dungeons will be re-examined for balancing in light of this
  change.  In addition, will have their loot improved significatnly for
  the next content patch.

 General
- Previously, in many cases, a Block, Parry, or Dodge was translated 
  into a "Miss," thus causing confusion over actual miss rates.  We've 
  made the following changes in an attempt to be more clear as to what 
  is  actually happening in combat:
   * Block: All creatures will now report a Block on attacks from the 
     front, reducing damage caused instead of converting the attack into
     a "Miss." Creatures will no longer be able to Block attacks from 
     behind.
   * Dodge: Every time a creature Dodges, it will report a Dodge. We 
     will no longer translate a creature's Dodge of a rear attack to a 
     "Miss."
   * Parry:  All creatures will now report a Parry on attacks from the 
     front instead of translating them into a "Miss." Creatures will no 
     longer be able to Parry attacks from behind.  
- Blocking an ability that takes place on the next swing now blocks the
  normal amount of damage instead of all of it.
- Skill-up rate improved for bows, crossbows, guns, thrown, and wands.
- Improved line of sight for large creatures.
- In-game mail sent from GMs will now use official Blizzard stationery.
- The Drunk effect has been greatly enhanced.
- If you resurrect without releasing your spirit, your resurrection 
  timer will decrease normally.
- You can no longer accept a warlock summoning while you are in combat.
- Increased stun resistance will now also help resist some non-melee 
  based stun spells from creatures.
- Mounts now are Horde or Alliance restricted in the tooltip. We do 
  not intend to allow Horde players to ride Alliance vendor-purchased 
  mounts and vice versa.

 PvP
- Most humanoids NPCs have gained the ability to swim.
- Numbers and punctuation will not be passed through chat communication 
  to members of the opposing faction.
- Spells in PvP now have a slight increase in range and area of effect 
  when targets are moving. This should improve the overall usability of 
  spells and ranged attacks.
- Priests can no longer kill players with Shadow Word: Pain and Mind 
  Control in duels.
- Certain key NPCs (such as bankers and auctioneers) in the cities and
  main outposts are now harder to kill. Additionally, when they die, 
  they will respawn more quickly.
- Patrolling scouts that can see through stealth and invisibility have 
  been added to both Orgrimmar and Ironforge.
- Players under Mind Control pass reputation changes due to kills to 
  the controlling player, and do not receive the reputation
  changes themselves.
- You cannot see your enemies' buffs while you are charmed.
- Dueling players can now cast helpful spells on their allies 
  (but not vice versa).
  
 Druid
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Rebirth - Casting time and mana cost reduced; now ignores 
  resurrection timers.
- Swiftshifting - Talent changed. When leaving a shapeshift form, the 
  next shapeshift form you take will have a 20%/40%/60% mana cost 
  reduction if used within 6 seconds.
- Gift of the Wild - This spell is now cast on the target's party.
- Cat Form - DPS increase at levels 40-60.
- New Ability (Cat Form): Ferocious Bite (available at level 32) - 
  Finishing move that causes damage per combo point and converts each 
  extra point of energy into additional damage.
- New Spell: Barkskin (available at level 44) - The druid's skin 
  becomes as tough as bark.  Physical damage taken is reduced. While 
  protected, taking damage will not cause spellcasting delays, but 
  non-instant spells take longer to cast and melee combat is slowed.
- New Ability (Bear Form): Frenzied Regeneration (available at level 
  36) - Converts an amount of rage into health every second for a 
  short duration.

 Hunter
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Sandfury Guardians are no longer tameable.
- Fixed a bug where Hunter pets were sometimes unattackable by opposing 
  faction players.
- Fixed a bug where creatures were keeping their innate resistances 
  after being tamed.  This was unintentional and the fix will affect 
  all existing pets.
- Distracting Shot - Is now properly improved by the Efficiency and 
  Hawk Eye talents.
- You can no longer use Eyes of the Beast to leave a flight path.

 Mage
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Improved Blizzard - Chill duration reduced to 1.5 seconds (4.5 
  seconds w/ Permafrost) and refreshes with each damage tick rather 
  than at the beginning of the spell. In addition, a target that 
  resists the damage will also resist the chill effect.
- Blink - Using this spell should no longer cause you to fall through 
  the world.
- Blink can now be used to escape more of the stun effects used by 
  creatures in the world.
- Blink is no longer useable on boats or zeppelins.
- Blast Wave damage radius fixed so damage properly extends to 10 yd.
- Dampen Magic - Duration and mana cost increased. Now castable on all 
  raid targets.
- Amplify Magic - Duration and mana cost increased. Now castable on all 
  raid targets.
- Frost/Ice Armor - Mana cost reduced.
- New Spell: Mage Armor (Available at level 34) - Allows for 30% of 
  mana regeneration to function while casting and increases resistance 
  to all magic schools. Does not stack with Frost/Ice Armor.
- New Spell: Conjure Water (Rank 7) (Available through quest at 
  level 60).
- Arcane Missiles: Fixed a bug where the spell would not function 
  properly against spell-reflecting targets.
    
 Paladin
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Blessing of Protection - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Blessing of Sacrifice - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Blessing of Salvation - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Divine Intervention - Now castable on all raid targets.

 Priest
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Holy Fire - Fixed a bug with the bonus damage gained from +fire 
  damage items. Such items now have a greater effect on this spell.
- Prayer of Fortitude - This spell is now cast on the target's party.
- Power Word: Shield - Now castable on all raid targets.

 Rogue
- A number of areas in the world now have footlockers in them.  
  These areas are in place for rogues to visit to increase their 
  lockpicking skills. The contents of these footlockers are only token 
  amounts of treasure, but they should allow for a more interesting 
  experience while increasing lockpicking skill. The difficulty of the 
  locks in the area correspond to the level of the zone, so if your 
  lockpicking skill is around 100, you would go to Durnholde Keep in 
  Hillsbrad. But if your skill is 250, you might head to Tyrs Hand in 
  Eastern Plaguelands.
   * Hillsbrad Foothills - Durnholde Keep
   * Redridge Mountains - Lake Everstill
   * Ashenvale Forest - Zoram Strand
   * Stonetalon Mountains - Windshear Crag and Associated Mines
   * Wetlands - Murloc Camps
   * Desolace - Sar'theris Strand
   * Badlands - Angor Fortress
   * Swamp of Sorrows - Pool of Tears
   * Searing Gorge - The Slag Pit
   * Tanaris Desert - Lost Rigger Cove
   * Azshara - Bay of Storms
   * Eastern Plaguelands - Tyr's Hand (elite)
- Very high-end gems will no longer be acquired from junk boxes or 
  pickpocketing.
- Added a visual to Sword Specialization "proc" that will now show up 
  in the combat log as well.

 Shaman
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Tremor Totem - Now creates the appropriate looking earth totem; 
  tooltip updated to clarify what effects it counters; radius of effect 
  increased; now pulses more frequently.
- Astral Recall - The tooltip now includes the home point the spell 
  will recall you to.
- We've changed the spell icon of several totem spells. They should now 
  all be unique.
- Searing Totem - Damage slightly increased.
- Reincarnation - No longer causes resurrection sickness.

 Warlock
- Improved Drain Mana - Will now report to the combat log all damage 
  caused.
- Inferno - The duration the Infernal is enslaved when first summoned 
  has been increased. The area of effect damage caused by the Inferno 
  spell, and all threat generated by it, will now originate from the 
  Infernal. The Infernal will now immediately attack targets within the 
  radius of the spell.
- Enslave Demon - Is no longer dispellable.
- Curse of Agony - Now benefits from items that increase shadow damage.
- Nightfall - Fixed a bug where the Shadow Trance effect was lost 
  without benefit. Previously, the talent had a 3%/4% chance of 
  triggering. It now has a 2%/4% chance of triggering, and the tooltips 
  have been updated to accurately reflect this change.
- Ritual of Doom - The death caused at the completion of the ritual no 
  longer causes durability loss.
- Firestone - Equipping Firestones will now increase damage caused by 
  fire spells.
- Spellstone - Equipping Spellstones will now improve your chance to 
  get a critical strike with spells.
- Fear - Mana cost changed to a percentage of base, which results in an 
  increase in cost.
- The Shadow Trance buff granted by the Nightfall talent will no longer 
  be used up by a shadowbolt that was in mid-cast.
  
 Warrior
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was slightly increased.
- Battle Shout - Rage cost reduced.
- Bloodrage - Health cost reduced.
- Heroic Strike - Damage increased.
- Parry - Moved to level 6.
- Thunder Clap - Now causes Physical damage instead of Nature damage; 
  damage increased; duration increased with each new rank.
  Improved Sunder Armor - Now decreases rage cost by 1/1/1.
  Improved Thunder Clap - Now decreases rage cost by 1/1/2.
- Execute - Full rage is no longer consumed when the ability does not 
  hit.
- Overpower - Should now be usable when a special attack is dodged.
- Fixed a bug where rage was not being generated when normal melee 
  attacks were parried, dodged, and blocked.
- Charge has been improved so it will work through doorways and won't 
  path you through an entire dungeon.
- Sweeping Strikes bug fixed. It will hit more reliably and show up 
  in combat log correctly.
- Added a visual to Sword Specialization "proc" that will now show up 
  in the combat log as well.
    
 Monsters
- Ogres in Azeroth have undergone a visual upgrade.
- Yeti will no longer flee when at low health.
- Mummified Atal'ai will no longer cast Fevered Plague so often.
- Some outdoor creatures will now use their Fear abilities less often.
- Reduced the number of pirates on the boats in Stranglethorn Vale.
- Reduced the number of Syndicate in Strahnbrad.
- Reduced the respawn rate of the troggs on the islands in Loch Modan.
- Some wildlife that was stationary in Desolace should now be more 
  active.
- Mechanical Whelps have been boosted by five levels in order 
  to be effective longer. Their damage has been slightly decreased to 
  compensate for the additional damage that would have occured with 
  the change.
- Battle Chicken has had its level boosted by five.
- The monster ability Skull Crack now only stuns for two seconds 
  instead of six.
- Warbringer Constructs now have less armor than before.

 Items
- The Reactive Mana set bonus effect on the Arcanist set had an 
  incorrect tooltip. The proper chance of the effect triggering is 1%, 
  not 100%.
- Restorative Elixir tooltip is now more clear.
- Weightstones may now be used on fist Weapons.
- Postmaster's Treads now have stats more appropriate for cloth
  wearers.
- Crown of the Penitent effect made more appropriate for the quality 
  and level of item.
- Bloodlust Epaulets stats improved to the appropriate amount for the 
  item's level and quality.
- The effect of the Spirit of Aquamentas and Choker of Enlightenment 
  has changed to a +damage and +healing of all spell schools effect.
- Ramstein's Lightning Bolts effect reduced to 200 points of damage and
  a 10-yard radius.
- Magister's Mantle, Robe, Belt, Crown, and Binding changed to include 
  more stamina in lieu of spirit.
- Gnomish earrings will no longer appear outside the Bloodlust Helm.
- Deathstriker name changed to Felstriker.
- The Lion Horn of Stormwind now properly gives AC to members of the 
  party.
- Priests can now use scrolls and the Heart of Noxxion while in 
  Shadowform.
- The costs of Enriched Manna Biscuits, Blessed Sunfruit, and Blessed 
  Sunfruit Juice have been lowered to 60 silver per stack of five.
- The buff effect of Blessed Sunfruit has been changed from Stamina 
  to Strength. 
- Horn of the Arctic Wolf now correctly summons an arctic wolf 
  (Instead of a light-gray one).
- White Bandit Mask is now Uncommon and Bind on Equip.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Judgement Sabatons to have two instances 
  of Spirit.
- Green Lens item can no longer call Stamina as one of its random 
  properties. Existing Green Lens have not been changed.
- Frenzied Striker is now Bind on Equip instead of Bind on Pick Up.
- Sorcerer Sphere is no longer Warlock only.
- Twilight Orb is no longer Warlock only.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Dog Training Gloves to not be Bind on 
  Pick Up.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Thrash Blade, Flurry Axe, and Ironfoe to 
  have an additional attack when the effect went off.
- Fixed a bug on Gearforge Girdle (awarded by the Felwood quest, A 
  Final Blow) that caused it to have more stats than it should. It 
  no longer has +12 defense.
- Shadowcraft Boots now have +21 Agility instead of +21 Intellect.
- Fixed a bug with Jungle Remedy that was causing it to be on the 
  non-combat potion timer of three seconds. It is now on the combat 
  potion timer of two minutes.
- Fixed a bug with Fist of Stone that caused it to have stats that it 
  shouldnt have. Existing Fist of Stone items have not been changed.
- Finkles Skinner is now Main hand only.
- Drop rates of gems have been increased at lower levels and decreased 
  at higher levels.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Outrunners Cord to appear incorrectly 
  on characters.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Voshgajins Strand to appear 
  incorrectly on characters.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Omokks Girth Restrainer to appear 
  incorrectly on characters.
- Holy spell damage bonuses will no longer appear on random property 
  items.
- Silithus has been itemized.
- Royal Seal of Alexis no longer drops off of Baron Bloodbane. It is 
  now only obtainable via the quest Ramstein, no longer has a 
  minimum level requirement, and is Bind on Acquire. Existing Royal 
  Seal of Alexis items have not been changed.
- 16-slot bags are now set to Uncommon.
- Razorlash Root should now restore mana as intended and should no 
  longer apply the first aid debuff.
- Re-worded tooltips on Shard of Afrasa and Demons Blood to better 
  explain their effects.
- Changed the tooltip on random property items with the suffixes "of 
  Concentration" and "of Regeneration" to more clearly state their 
  effects.
- Lunar Wands that drop should now have random properties.
- Hurley Blackbreaths treasure table has been modified.
- Rends treasure table has been modified.
- Goraluk Anvilcrack treasure table has been modified.
- General Drakkisath treasure table has been modified.
- Deathchargers Reins can now be used by Tauren.
- Items that periodically restore health and mana no longer show up 
  in the combat log.
- Vanquishers Sword and Amberglow Talisman, the rewards for the 
  quests Bring the Light (Alliance) and Bring the End (Horde), have 
  been upgraded to be rare instead of uncommon.
- Modified Crystal Charge, Crystal Force, Crystal Restore, Crystal 
  Spire, Crystal Ward, and Crystal Yield to be on appropriate cooldown 
  timers. Completing the Crystal Pylon quest to obtain them will now 
  reward five each instead of three.
- Mark of the Dragon Lord has had its visual changed to better fit its 
  effect, and the tooltip has been corrected.


 Professions
- A new engineering recipe is available in Blackrock Depths for 
  a repair robot. This robot acts as a repair vendor for 10 minutes 
  and will repair and purchase items for normal cost. This will allow 
  dungeon groups and raids to get items repaired and sold without 
  returning to town.
- The Horde version of the tribal leatherworking quest now requires 
  the appropriate amount of leatherworking skill to complete. 
- The item requirements for the elemental leatherworking quest have 
  been lowered from four of each kind of elemental item to two.
- A number of high-end profession reagents were changed to good 
  quality (green) to indicate their value and so that they are 
  distributed properly by group loot (Essences, Orbs of Righteousness, 
  etc.).
- All of the creation professions have had one or more dropped recipes 
  added to raid level targets.
- Bottomless Bag requires significantly more mooncloth and two core 
  leather to make now.
- Invulnerability Potion - Now makes you immune to all physical attacks 
  and damage rather than just damage.
- The effects of flasks and elixirs are no longer dispellable.  This 
  should make their use more compelling in PvP situations.
- Fused Wiring will now drop more often from target dummies.  
- Quickdraw Quiver now requires cured thick hide (instead of thick 
  hide) as one of its required components.
- Crimson Lotus changed to a gray item as it is currently unused by 
  professions.
- Green Lens now requires more ingredients to make, but has special 
  effects rather than just stats on it.
- Red dragonscales have had their vendor price reduced.
- Drop rates of very high-end gems have been somewhat increased on rich 
  thorium veins.
- Improvements have been made to many potions: Troll's Blood potions, 
  Stoneshield potions, Magic Resistance potions, Flasks of Power, and 
  Greater Defense potions.
- Chimeric Glove recipe is no longer bind on pick up.
- There is now a recipe at leatherworking trainers that allows thick 
  leather to be turned into rugged leather.
- Turtle Scale Gloves recipe has been added to vendors in Feralas to 
  make completion of the tribal leatherworking quest easier.
- You will now catch ocean fish when fishing from Ruttheran village.
- The cooking trainer in Dolanaar now sells cooking recipes for 
  several types of fish.
- Owls in Teldrassil now drop more eggs than they used to.
- A new type of turtle is now found on the beaches of northern Tanaris 
  in the level 42-43 range. They can be skinned for turtle scales.
- The Recipes for Robe of the Void, Robe of the Archmage, and Truefaith 
  Vestments are no longer soulbound.
- Engineering guns level 40 and above now have attributes on them to 
  bring them in line with the random property guns.
- Cooking recipe, Tender Wolf Steak, added to vendors in Aerie Peaks 
  and Gadgetzan. Allows players to cook tender wolf meat.
- Horde cooks can now cook up raptor eggs from a recipe found in 
  Gromgol and Hammerfall.
- Elixir of Giants duration increased to 60 minutes.
- Shadowskin Gloves recipe added so there is a non-rare recipe that 
  requires Shadowcat Hide.
- Hot Wolf Ribs now count as meat for purposes of being fed to 
  hunter pets. 
- Mooncloth recipe moved to a different vendor in Everlook.
- Storm Gauntlets fixed so they deliver their lightning damage 
  correctly.
- Enchantment for boots that increase speed improved significantly.
  
 Raids & Dungeons
- "Raid lockout" is fixed.  If the leader of your raid group is saved 
  in a different instance than you would otherwise go to, you are added
  to your leader's instance. 
- Added /raidinfo command showing remaining time on saved raid 
  instances.  Also shows an ID to compare with other players (if you 
  have the same saved ID as them, you will go into the same instance) 
- Added a chat window message when you are first saved to an instance.
- Raid members will show up on the world map.
- If you enter an instance in a group, and then leave that group, you 
  will not be able to complete quest objectives until you rejoin the 
  group.
- Extended the decay time of boss corpses in dungeons.
- Lengthened the respawn time of many of the creatures in Ragefire 
  Chasm, Gnomeregan, Uldaman, Razorfen Downs, Scholomance, and 
  Stratholme.
- Molten Core
   * Molten Core is now on a 6-day respawn timer.
   * Added in-game voice for Ragnaros and Majordomo Executus.
   * Fixed an issue that was causing the first Firelord to stop moving.
   * Garr will now lose his enrage buff when he leaves combat.
   * Majordomo Executus will now make the Flamewaker Healers immune to 
     polymorph at the appropriate time, even after failed attempts.
   * Bringing Flamewaker Healers too far away from Majordomo Executus 
     will now result in the Healers becoming immune to Polymorph.
   * Line of Sight checks removed from many creature abilities in 
     Molten Core.
   * Sons of Flame now despawn when everyone wipes.
   * Ragnaros will reset properly if the raid wipes while submerged.
- Onyxia
   * Onyxia's fireballs will no longer result in a confuse effect 
     (Engulfing Flames). The impact damage of these fireballs has been 
     slightly increased to compensate for the loss of the damage 
     over time.
   * Onyxia's egg pit will now heat up when she does a strafe breath 
     across the room.
   * Onyxian Warders now respawn in the hallway while Onyxia is in 
     combat.
   * Increased the delay before Onyxia will try to tail sweep.
   * Fixed a bug that could cause Onyxia to occasionally not reset 
     correctly.
   * Fixed a bug that was causing Onyxia to get stuck under the world
   * Players no longer leave combat while Onyxia is in flight.
   * The Onyxia Key quest for the Horde has experienced some changes.
   * The Test of Skulls for Scryer, Somnus, and Chronalis can now all 
     be obtained simultaneously. The drop rates for black dragonspawn 
     eyes have been increased substantially.
- Stratholme
   * Baroness Anastasi in Stratholme will now leave the possessed 
     target when the target is below 50% health, instead of 30%. She 
     will also cast Possession slightly less often.
   * Roaming Gargoyles will be set to a 30-minute respawn.
   * Roaming Shades set to 15-30 minute respawn (previously 5-15).
   * Patchwork Horrors set to 15-30 minute respawn (previously 6-10). 
   * Overall respawn in the entire dungeon made longer.
   * Crimson Conjurers will no longer roam in pairs.
   * Crimson Conjurers can now only have a max of two "pets" at 
     one time.
   * Changed the way the Gauntlet area works. The Crystals no longer 
     respawn. 
   * The Crystals no longer fire ribbon of souls (this was causing 
     in-combat issues).
   * Fixed a bug that was causing monsters to leave combat in 
     mid-fight, thus regaining all their health. 
   * Various tweaks made to the Baroness encounter.
- Scholomance
   * Lengthened the overall respawn of the dungeon.
   * Risen Aberration health and damage reduced.
   * Reduced the duration of Dark Plague from three minutes to 90 
     seconds.
   * Fixed a bug that caused the Cloud of Disease spell, cast by 
     Diseased Ghouls, to do more damage than intended.
   * Blood of Innocents will now drop off both Doctor Theolen 
     Krastinov (The Butcher) and Jandice Barov for players that have 
     completed the Sarkhoff questline in Scholomance.
   * Shadow resistance now will be more effective at mitigating the 
     damage from Unholy Aura.
   * The creature spell, Call of the Grave, has had its damage reduced 
     by half.
- Blackrock Spire
   * Spire Spiders now only summon four Spire Spiderlings instead of 
     five. 
   * Health and damage on these Spire Spiderlings has been reduced.
   * Crystallize has been reduced from eight seconds to six seconds.
   * Some Blackrock Spire bosses will now properly display their true 
     level, instead of being considered world bosses (who do not 
     display level).
- Blackrock Depths
   * The doors to the Lyceum will now re-open after Magmus has been 
     killed.
   * Vault encounter has been toned down slightly.
   * Mind Flay and Cripple will now work on Blackrock Depths bosses.
- Maraudon
   * Princess Theradras - Boulders thrown will now cause a knockdown as 
     well. She will also be more intelligent about deciding when to use 
     her Dust Field ability.
   * Noxxion encounter made easier for groups lacking area of effect 
     damage.
   * Creeping Sludge poison proc has been changed to a pulsing 
     point-blank area of effect short-range damage spell called Poison 
     Shock.
- Zul'Farrak
   * Dead Hero will now always drop an uncommon random item.
   * Witch Doctor Zum'rah's loot table was improved.
   * Toned down the Zigguraut event.
   * Toned down the Antu'sul event.
   * Fixed stuck NPCs that were causing "in combat" issues.
   * Scarabs will no longer flee when at low health.
- Scarlet Monastery
   * Doors requiring the Scarlet Key can now also be opened with a 
     Large Seaforium Charge in addition to the lockpick ability.
- Gnomeregan
   * Doors requiring the Workshop Key can now be opened with a Small 
     Seaforium Charge.
- Deadmines
   * The "cannon door" can now be opened with a Small Seaforium Charge 
     in addition to the lockpick ability.

 Quests
- Quests that take you into dungeons are now denoted "Dungeon" in the 
  quest log, and are sorted under the dungeon to which they take you. 
- Decrepit Guardians in Andorhal were changed to non-elite. 
- The Heroes of Darrowshire quest in Eastern Plaguelands now gives an
  experience reward. 
- Increased the drop rate of Shadowmaw Claws for Mok'thardin's 
  Enchantment.
- Fixed an issue with the Green Hills of Stranglethorn quest. If 
  players destroy one of the chapters, Barnil will now help them 
  relocate it.
- The quest, Scarlet Diversions, should now be easier to complete.
- Reduced the speed at which the Magrami ghosts are attracted to the 
  Ghost Magnet in the Ghost-o-plasm Round Up quest.  Modified quest 
  text to suggest players move away from where they place their magnet. 
- Princess Poobah now waits for 60 seconds before despawning after the
  completion of the Message in a Bottle quest. 
- Fixed pathing on the assassins of the Protect Kanati Greycloud quest,
  to prevent them from getting stuck. 
- Arei the Treant is now PvP-enabled.  If Horde players attack him
  while Alliance players are escorting him, the Horde players will now
  be flagged for PvP. 
- The Its Dangerous to Go Alone quest in Ungoro no longer requires 
  a deprecated item to complete. 
- The health of the Corrupted Saber (escortee in the Corrupted Sabers 
  quest) was increased. 
- The Scarab Shells quest in ZulFarraks item requirement was reduced 
  from nine Uncracked Scarab Shells to five
- Zaricotl no longer drops an NYI (Not Yet In) quest item (the Pocked 
  Black Box) for Horde players. 
- The epic item questline for the turning in of the Beast's hide has 
  had its monetary requirements lowered to 50 gold. 
- The Molten Core Dark Iron turn-in quests (Favor Amongst the 
  Brotherhood) have had several major changes. Turning in Dark Iron Ore 
  will now result in half of its previous faction reward. However, the 
  turn-in requirements for Fiery Core, Core Leather, and Lava Core have 
  been substantially reduced and their faction rewards quadrupled. 
- For the Kodo Roundup quest in Desolace, bringing a Tamed Kodo back to 
  Smeed Scrabblescrew now works. 
- The King of the Foulweald quest event in Ashenvale now has the 
  Enraged Foulwealds spawn as soon as Karangs Banner is placed. 
- The Zameks Distraction quest event in Thousand Needles now causes 
  Rizzle to leave his hut (and leave his Indurium Plans behind). 
- End quest added to Hydraxis quest line, offering players a reward. 
- The amount of waves players must fight in the Belnistrasz quest event
  has been reduced. 
- Argent Dawn Valor Tokens, Minions Scourgestones, Invaders 
  Scourgestones, and Corruptors Scourgestones now stack in quantities 
  greater than 20. 
- You may now turn in Thorium Shells in exchange for Thorium Headed 
  Arrows. Both Orgrimmar and Ironforge have a turn-in NPC.
- Smudge Thunderbrew in Ravenholdt Manor now sells the recipe for 
  Thistle Tea to those rogues who completed the quest and inadvertently 
  destroyed their recipes. 
- The Horde version of the quest A Call to Arms: The Plaguelands! 
  should now only be available once after accepting the quest. 
- The text for the Jeneu and the Earthen Ring quest has been 
  clarified. 
- The completion point for the The Fragments Within quest should now 
  appear in the mini-map. 
- The Araj's Scarab quest should now properly reflect that it is an 
  elite difficulty quest. 
- The WANTED: Murkeep! quest is now sharable. 
- The duration of Arcane Quickeners has been increased to 30 minutes. 
- The reward for completing the quest Morrowgrain to 
  Feathermoon Stronghold has been increased to 10 packets of seeds per 
  five morrowgrain. 
- The Evergreen Pouch as used by Herbalists with a skill of 150+ has 
  been modified. 
- The chance of getting morrowgrain when the pouch is used has been 
  slightly increased. 
- The Order Must Be Restored quest now gives a Stormwind reputation 
  boost upon completion. 
- The Roll the Bones quest has been lowered in level. 
- There are now more lockboxes available in the Ruins of Andorhal for 
  the Counting Out Time quest. 
- The Mangled Journal found in UnGoro Crater now drops for all members 
  of a group. 
- The Shattered Necklace in Badlands and Uldaman now drops for all 
  members of a group. 
- The Winterfall Activity quest is now available to players who are 
  at the minimum point of Friendly reputation with the Timbermaw 
  Furbolgs. 
- Ghede and Jenal in the UnGoro Soil quest now appear in the 
  mini-map when it is time to talk to them.  It is also clearer where 
  they are in the quest text. 
- Quests marked as Gadgetzan in the header of the quest log should now 
  be displayed as Tanaris. 
- Typos fixed for many quests. 
    
 Pets
- Pets in defensive mode that respond to attacks will no longer flag
  their masters for PvP.  If the master issues an explicit attack 
  command, the master will be flagged.
- You can issue pet commands while you are stunned, fleeing, etc.
- Pets and summons no longer get stuck when you get on a boat or 
  zeppelin.
- Non-aggressive enemy NPCs no longer attack pets and summons.

 Faction & Reputation
- Felicia Maline in Stormwind is now giving a discount on gryphon rides 
  for players who have Honored or greater reputation with Stormwind. 
- The Argent Dawn is offering new rewards to heroes who are Revered and 
  Exalted to the Dawn.  Speak to a quartermaster of the Argent Dawn for 
  more information! 
- If a player is under the effects of mind control by another player, 
  then reputation adjustments for killing creatures go to the 
  controlling player. 
- Larger factions (Horde, Alliance, Steamwheedle Cartel, etc.) now 
  report reputation increases and decreases across the board if so 
  affected. 
- Rivern Frostwinds death no longer gives reputation adjustments for 
  Horde and Alliance factions. 
- Winterfall Pathfinders in Winterspring now give Timbermaw reputation 
  adjustments when killed. 
- The loss of overall reputation when a player loses reputation at the 
  higher tiers of a faction (Friendly, Honored, Revered, Exalted) has 
  been substantially reduced.  
    
 User Interface
- You can now have multiple action bars onscreen at the same time.   
- You can activate the additional action bars through the Interface
  options menu.
- You can now have quest completion criteria for the quests you are 
  currently on display on the game screen as well as in the quest log.   
  If you shift-click on a quest in the quest log, it will display the 
  completion criteria on the main game screen underneath the mini-map.
- You will now be able to tell how many other players in your group 
  have the same quest you do.  When you are in a group, it will display 
  the number of other players in the group who have the quest in 
  parenthesis to the left of the quest name.  If you mouse over the 
  quest name, it will display the names of the other players in the 
  party who have the quest in the bottom right hand corner of the 
  screen.
- Chat bubbles have been added to the game.  Now when a player or NPC 
  uses a /say or /yell chat command, it is displayed in the game screen 
  by default as a chat bubble as well as in the chat log. It displays 
  above the head of the character talking, but only if you can see the 
  character. This functionality can be turned off should you desire. 
  This functionality also exists for party chat, but is turned off by 
  default. Both options are turned on or off in the "Interface" options
  window.
- The /bug and /suggest commands have been removed from the game.
  This functionality was mainly for beta test purposes and not intended
  for our live audience.  To submit bug reports, please petition a GM.
  To make a suggestion about the game, please use the Suggestions forum
  on the WorldofWarcraft.com website.
- Level information is no longer available to the scripting system for 
  dangerously high-level enemies.
- Improved client performance with chat filter enabled.
- Added /golfclap.
- You can no longer change armor sets while your enemies are stunned.
- If more than one player ties a loot roll, a random player will 
  receive the loot.
- Monster tooltips now display the hostile color in an easier to read 
  shade of red.
- Loot sparkles will disappear appropriately after group loot or master 
  loot is distributed.
- An option has been added to display the time remaining on your buffs 
  all the time.  The option is found in the "Interface" options window
  under "Buff Durations."
- If the current round robin looter closes the loot window without 
  looting money, other players may loot the money.
- Targeting with the tab key has been fixed so hitting tab will acquire 
  creatures in a cone up to 30 yards in front of you or a circle 10 
  yards around you. It no longer only hits targets off to your left.
- When you are using group loot or need before greed looting systems 
  and are looting a bind on pick up item, the "This item will bind to 
  you" yes/no dialog box pops up after you click the "roll dice" 
  button, but before it accepts your roll.
- You can now lock your action bar so spells cannot be dragged out of 
  it while it is locked.  This functionality can be assigned to a 
  hotkey toggle in the keybindings UI.
- Trading with a player no longer closes his auction interface (you 
  get a busy message).
- Added subclasses to recipes in the auction house interface 
  (tailoring, leatherworking, etc...)
- A message will be sent to group members if everyone passes on a loot 
  item roll.
- An "unbind" button has been added to the key bindings page.
- Guild names can no longer have consecutive spaces, or start or end 
  with a space.  This prevents confusingly similar guild names such as
  "My Guild" and "My  Guild".
- Added a right-click menu to the social pane for whispering and 
  inviting players into groups.  
- The guild interface remembers whether or not to show offline members 
  between sessions.
- If you are holding down the move forward key, and press the move 
  backwards key, you will stop moving.
- Increased the quest share distance to 10 yards.
- The "|" character will show up in general chat channels.
- You will get informative feedback if you try to share a quest with 
  someone who is already on the quest or has completed it.
- Added UI to the addon customization screen to specify how much memory 
  is available to the scripting system.  
- Added the "date" and "time" functions to the UI scripting system.
- You will see an error message if you tell your pet to attack a target 
  that it can't find a path to.
- If you are sitting and press a turn key, you will stand up and start 
  turning.  
- Riding Kodos have new icons for when you are mounted.
- NPC chat log color changed to light yellow by default instead of gray, 
  which was not very readable.
- If you have files in the Interface\FrameXML folder, they will be 
  moved to Interface\FrameXML.old after a patch.  
- After the game is patched, you will be prompted to disable addons 
  that are out of date.  
- Added IsMovable(), SetMovable(), IsResizable(), SetResizable() member 
  functions to frames in the scripting system.  
- Added the "pcall" and "xpcall" functions to the UI scripting system.
- The .toc file for addons supports a new keyword: "DefaultState," 
  which can be enabled or disabled, and specifies whether or not an 
  addon is enabled or disabled by default when first installed.
 
 World Environment
- The bridges in northern Stranglethorn Vale are now fixed so they will 
  not dismount you when you ride across them.
- The names of many more points of interest have been added to various
  area maps.
- The Ashenvale, Felwood, and Azshara Crater areas are using a new 
  graveyard system that should help to place dead characters at 
  appropriate graveyards.
- Fixed several places throughout the world where monsters and 
  profession nodes were spawning underground, floating or inside of 
  objects.
- You can now design guild tabards in Ironforge and Thunder Bluff.
- Characters dying in the instanced portions of Blackfathom Deeps, 
  Scholomance, Maraudon, Onyxia's Lair, and Ragefire Chasm will now 
  correctly receive a corpse marker in the minimap and see the message 
  letting them know that they need to enter the instance before they 
  will be able to resurrect.
- The Argent Dawn base at the southern edge of the Western Plaguelands 
  is now named Chillwind Camp.
- Quartermaster Miranda Breechlock in Eastern Plaguelands is now in a 
  more accessible position. 
- Krinkle Goodsteel in Gadgetzan no longer repairs durability damage.  
  His brother, Wrinkle Goodsteel, and his friend Blizrik Buckshot, who 
  share a nearby shop, are still more than happy to provide their 
  durability repair services.
- Reagent Vendors have been added to Feathermoon Stronghold and Camp 
  Mojache in Feralas.
- Added a mailbox to the Darnassus Bank.
   
 Flight Paths
- The following flight times have been reduced:
   * Auberdine - Talonbranch Glade
   * Thunder Bluff - Orgrimmar
   * Theramore (Dustwallow Marsh) - Nijel's Point (Desolace)
- The following flight paths have been added:
   * Gadgetzan - Brackenwall Village
   * Gadgetzan - Valor's Rest (Silithus)
   * Gadgetzan - Camp Mojache
   * Gadgetzan - Crossroads
   * Orgrimmar - Everlook
  
 Bug Fixes
- Fixed framerate problem with UI modifications that use overlapping 
  buttons.
- Hunter pets immediately gain training points when they level up.
- Creatures that are quickly respawning to repopulate an area will 
  often wait a few seconds after they spawn before attacking 
  players.
- Fixed bug where Seal Fate and Blood Frenzy were giving two combo 
  points instead of one.
- You can no longer disenchant an item while you have the disenchant 
  loot window open for another item, which caused you to lose the 
  original item and its loot.
- Fixed bug where Primal Frenzy was giving 10 rage instead of five.
- Fixed bug where melee weapon abilities were causing durability 
  damage to ranged weapons.
- Fixed a bug where abilities that give extra attacks, like the paladin
  Reckoning talent, could cause the following swing to take longer than 
  it should.
- Fixed a bug where instant melee attacks were not blockable.
- Fixed a bug where "On Next Swing" melee attacks (e.g. Heroic Strike)
  that were blocked were fully blocked instead of having their damage 
  reduced by the block amount.
- Fixed a bug where off-hand attacks were being skipped when using 
  "On Next Swing" melee attacks.
- Fixed a bug where Ammo Pouch and Quiver bonuses were stacking 
  together.  Now only the better bonus should be considered.
- Fixed a bug where Quivers and Ammo Pouches were granting a larger 
  haste bonus than intended in some cases.
- Items like the Eye of the Beast will correctly increase your spell 
  critical hit chances.
- Players will no longer become stuck behind a structure in the Ruins 
  of Eldarath, Azshara.
- Players will no longer become stuck near the entrance to an ogre 
  mound in the Mo'Grosh Stronghold in Loch Modan.  
- Players will no longer become stuck in a steep location in Forest 
  Song, Ashenvale. 
- Players will no longer fall through the ground in a cave location in 
  Duskwood.
- Players will no longer fall through the ground at the Cauldron area 
  of the Searing Gorge.
- Players can no longer gain access to Zul'Gurub through Duskwood.
- Turning in a guild charter signed by a player who later joins 
  another guild no longer destroys the charter.  You get it back and 
  have to get a replacement signature.
- Turning in a guild charter with the same name as an existing guild 
  will no longer destroy the charter.  You can then rename your charter 
  and turn it in again. 
- Tab targeting works properly now.
- Fixed exploit allowing non-grouped players to remove other players 
  from groups.
- Hyperlinks for wrapped items no longer show random property of the 
  wrapped item.
- Fixed bug with incorrect minimum bid display when outbid while 
  monitoring your auctions at the auction house.
- The auction interface now displays the gold, silver, and copper 
  values for all items, even if those values are zero.  This should 
  make it more difficult to "hide" an item that costs several gold 
  among items that only cost several silver, for example.
- Items with charges now work properly from the action bar.
- Removed unnecessary happiness icon for warlock pets
  Self-casting (ALT+action button) when your current target is out of 
  range works properly now.
- The quest NPC Khan Jehn no longer becomes confused and unresponsive.
- The stove at Sentinel Hill in Westfall can be used for cooking.
- Campfires amongst the murloc encampments in Dreadmurk Shore, 
  Dustwallow Marsh can now be used for cooking.
- Fixed a problem with the Horde flight path from Light's Hope Chapel 
  in Eastern Plaguelands to the Undercity.
- You will now properly receive COD payments and returned mail from 
  those on your ignore list.
- Fixed item links from the character inspect window.
- Fixed item links from beyond the first page of the loot window.
- Fixed a bug allowing a guild master to promote himself to guild 
  master, which incorrectly set the guild master as an officer, leaving 
  the guild without a leader.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.4 (2005-02-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
- We have deployed a client-side change that should improve 
  performance when large numbers of players are gathered in a small 
  area of the world. No other changes are included with this emergency 
  patch.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.3 (2005-02-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  PvP Duels
  Dueling across factions remains intact in the patch, in consideration
  of players' desires to duel members of the opposing faction.
  
  *This is a minor patch to address localization issues discovered 
  during the European beta test. These changes affect localized text 
  strings for French and German versions of the game only, and players 
  in other regions will not see any changes to the game.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.2 (2005-02-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Paladin
  Seal of the Crusader: Fixed a bug where damage per swing was 
  increasing instead of decreasing when Seal of the Crusader was active.
  This resulted in a dramatic increase in damage per second (DPS) that 
  was unintended.  The tooltip for the spell displays the intent of 
  the spell:

  "Fills the Paladin with the spirit of a crusader, granting additional 
  attack power.  The Paladin also attacks faster, but deals less damage 
  with each attack."

  The overall increase in DPS from Seal of the Crusader should only 
  result from the increase in attack power and not from the increase in 
  attack speed.  We understand this is a significant decrease in the 
  power of this spell, but was a necessary bug fix to ensure both 
  overall game balance and the viability of different Paladin Seals.


  Localization
- Various text strings and audio have been corrected for the French and
  German versions of the game.


  Macs
- Fixed a bug that incorrectly enabled the vertex animation shader 
  option on some GPU's that do not support it. This bug was causing 
  player character models in-game and in the character selection screen 
  to appear invisible or distorted.  The fix should benefit users with 
  NVIDIA GeForce 2MX or 4MX GPU's and ATI Radeon 7000/7500 GPU's.  It 
  should no longer be necessary to manually turn off the vertex 
  animation feature on these systems - it should now be off and 
  disabled automatically.


  Bug Fixes
- Group loot has been fixed to work as originally intended. It will now
  work exactly like round robin does, with the exception that when an 
  item of threshold level or above drops, it will use the auto-rolling 
  system. (Prior to this fix, when in group loot mode, the round robin 
  system was only being used for items (all players could loot coins), 
  which was rather confusing).
- Fixed a group loot permission bug that was telling players they did 
  not have permission to loot.
- Fixed a bug that was causing the game to freeze when scrolling 
  through auctions in the Auction House.
- Murlocs play the drown animation when they die underwater now.
- Onyxia correctly hovers instead of standing in midair.
- You can target vocal emotes again.
- Pets and summoned creatures attacking enemies will now tap the 
  enemies for their owners.
- Fixed a bug with Troll Shamans and the Berserk ability. Troll Shamans 
  can only go Berserk when they are in the wounded state.
- Rogues now correctly gain Lockpicking skill from items picked in the 
  trade window.
- Quests that require you to follow/escort an NPC will only complete 
  when you arrive at the designated area.
- Horde and Alliance members cannot duel with each other regardless of 
  realm type.
- Herbs and mineral nodes will remain active if they are not fully 
  emptied.
- Fixed a bug that was giving higher damage-per-second (DPS) to 
  Steelarrow Crossbow and Blackcrow than was intended.
- Sell prices on Hypnotic Blade, Illusionary Rod, Mantle of Doan, and 
  Robe of Doan have been lowered.
- Players who have completed the quest to summon Kirtonos may now 
  obtain the Blood of Innocents from Doctor Theolen Krastinov.
- The tooltip for the Warrior's Intercept ability has been updated to 
  reflect the proper rage cost. Using Intercept now requires 10 rage, 
  not 15 rage. The tooltip now accurately reflects that.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.1 (2004-12-21)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bug Fixes

- Rolling for items in the French and German will now work properly.
- Resolved an issue with looting in click to move mode that could cause crashes.
- Performance issues occurring with certain CPUs have been resolved.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.0 (2004-12-21)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Happy Holidays!
  The holidays are here and the citizens of Azeroth are celebrating the 
  occasion with festive decorations and winter time activities.  Keep an
  eye out for some fun and exciting surprises throughout the world!


 New Dungeon - Maraudon
  In the vast gray of Desolace lies the earthen tomb of Zaetar, fallen 
  Keeper of the Grove and son of Cenarius. Zaetar rejected his Keeper 
  heritage when he joined with the princess of the chaotic earth 
  elementals, Theradras. Their unholy union gave birth to the misshapen 
  and cursed centaur, who promptly slew their father for his part in 
  their misbegotten creation. Fearful of Cenarius' wrath, the 
  grief-stricken Theradras sequestered her dead lover's body in her 
  secret sanctuary, the Crystal Caverns of Therramok, where she watches 
  over him to this day. Travelers who come to Desolace have little 
  trouble spotting Zaetar's tomb, for the blessing of nature that 
  permeates his being transformed his resting place into a verdant 
  paradise of flora and tranquil pools. Today, this tomb is now trodden 
  by the hooves of Zaetar's children, who have claimed this great cavern 
  as their sacred stronghold Maraudon.

  Maraudon, a level 40-49 dungeon in Desolace, is now open and ready for
  business.


 Cloak & Helm Graphics
  There are now interface options that let you not display your helm 
  and/or cloak on your character.These options will allow a player to wear a 
  cloak or helm, but not have it show up in the game world.The check 
  boxes to control this functionality are in the Options menu under 
  "Interface Options."


 General
- Players will now receive credit for killing a monster even if 
  they die during battle.
- Players will now be able to purchase and train mounts from other 
  races in their faction.  However, you will first need to obtain 
  "exalted" reputation status with that race in order to do so.  
  Mounts of the opposing faction are not available for purchase.
- A "Looking for Group" channel has been added.Additional improvements 
  in looking for group functionality will be added in future patches.
- Daze chance has been reduced in degrees depending on the level of the 
  monster versus the level of the player.  Thus, a monster will have a 
  better chance to Daze a player equal in level than it would Dazing a 
  player five levels higher.
- If you die in Molten Core, you will now be able to retrieve your 
  corpse at the Blackrock Depths instance line.
- Several instance bosses and sub-bosses have had their levels slightly 
  lowered.
- Giant Clams in the Vile Reef now drop Blue Pearls.
- Spell Reflection no longer reflects abilities.
- You can initiate a trade by dropping money onto a player.
- You can no longer select targets while under the effects of charm.
- Most non-elite creatures in non-instanced areas of the world have had 
  their hit points slightly increased starting from level 20.
- Messages in the chat window provide feedback when you are getting 
  drunk or sober.
- Skill gain messages will no longer appear for auto-ranking class 
  skills when you gain a level.
- Training costs for all classes are in the process of being rebalanced.  
  For this patch, training costs have been adjusted for the Rogue and 
  Warlock classes and we will be making similar adjustments to all 
  classes in the future.


 Talents
- Damage bonus for the Warrior's One-Handed Weapon Specialization 
  (Protection tab) increased to 2% per rank.
- Amount of threat generated by Shield Bash when Shield Discipline is 
  active has been increased.
- Mortal Strike changed to deal weapon damage + a flat amount (85, 110, 
  135, 160) instead of percentage-based damage.  Additional ranks 
  available on Warrior trainers.
- A bug causing the Hurricane talent to not require channeling has 
  been fixed. This spell now correctly requires channeling.


 Player versus Player
- Gurubashi Arena - The arena in Stranglethorn Vale has been changed so 
  that free-for-all PvP will only take place on the floor of the arena, 
  and no longer in the stands or on the entrance ramp. Please keep in 
  mind that on PvP realms, members of the opposite faction can still 
  attack you anywhere in the arena because Stranglethorn Vale is a 
  contested area.
- There is now a short countdown before a duel starts.


 Professions
- Fishing for high-level zones has been restored.
- Monetary value of fished items sold to vendors has been significantly 
  reduced.
- Chances of acquiring green weapons and armor from fishing have been 
  reduced.
- Fishing profession now requires a minimum character level, like the 
  other professions do. Any character who already has a fishing 
  profession past the intended level will not be affected.
- The recipes for Heavy Mageweave Bandage, Runecloth Bandage, and Heavy 
  Runecloth Bandage can be learned by visiting your faction's Artisan 
  First Aid questgiver.
- Sell prices on Runecloth Bandages and Heavy Runecloth Bandages have 
  been reduced.
- Expert First Aid books moved to a more appropriate vendor for the 
  Horde. New vendor is still within the same general area as the 
  previous one.
- Spider Sausage added to cooking trainers.
- Negative effect on Fletcher's Gloves has been changed.
- Alchemists' Stone effects have been changed.
- Gnomish Death Ray ingredients have been changed.
- Small Spider Legs drops have been increased to aid night elf cooks.
- Embossed Leather Boots are now correctly marked as Soulbound.
- Enchant 2H Weapon with Intellect is now correctly giving +3 to 
  Intellect.
- Enchanter's Cowl minimum level to use set to 28 instead of 38, as was 
  originally intended.
- Decrepit Darkhounds are now skinnable.
- Bloodstone Ore was made easier to mine.


 Items
- The damage effect on Deathblow, Diabolic Skiver, and Pendulum of Doom 
  is now considered physical damage instead of Shadow damage.
- Area effect of Piccolo of the Flaming Fire has been reduced.
- Common shields sold at the shops have had their levels shifted to 
  provide for a greater variety of choices.
- The damage effect from Circle of Flame no longer gets increased by 
  items with fire bonuses.
- Area effect on Explosive Rockets has been reduced.
- Damage over time effect on Demonshear should no longer be increased 
  by items with Shadow bonuses.
- Effects from Stormstout, Trogg Ale, Raptor Punch, and Keg of 
  Thunderbrew Lager no longer stack.
- Enriched Manna Biscuit now regenerates mana correctly.
- Wolfmane Wristguards are now Uncommon instead of Common.
- Lowered stats and armor on the Forcestone Buckler, which is rewarded 
  from the Compendium of the Fallen quest. Existing Forcestone Bucklers 
  have not been modified.
- Smokey's Explosive Launcher and Smokey's Fireshooter from When Smokey 
  Sings, I get Violent quest have been improved. Additional item reward 
  added to this quest as well.
- Heart of the Scale should apply the correct Fire resistance now.
- Fixed a bug that caused Wildheart Boots to have duplicate stats.
- Loamflake Bracers now have stats.
- Effect on Cloak of Flames has been reduced.
- Dog Training Gloves are now Uncommon instead of Common.
- Murkgill Murlocs in Stranglethorn no longer drop Encrusted Tail Fin.
- Fixed texture on Rageclaw Belt to look like a belt instead of pants.
- Armor values for some Leather and Mail armor between levels 15 - 36 
  have been slightly changed to address an error with armor values.


 Quests
- Many Stranglethorn Vale quests had their experience rewards changed 
  to be more in line with the difficulty of the quests. Some 
  Stranglethorn Vale quests were also increased in difficulty, due to 
  increased kill requirements or balance changes to the quest target 
  creatures.The Green Hills of Stranglethorn and Big Game Hunter 
  quests also now reward different items upon completion.
- Two new quests added to Desolace involving the Kodo Caravan.
- Number of centaur required to kill to unleash Warlord Krom'zar in 
  the Barrens Counterattack! quest has been reduced to 20.
- Time limit for the Counterattack! quest has been increased to 20 
  minutes.
- Thazz'ril's Pick is now easier to spot.
- Bloodfury quest in Stonetalon Mountains is now marked elite.
- Catch of the Day quest in Desolace now requires 2 Bloodfish instead 
  of the previous 5.
- New quest rewards added to the Allegiance to the Old Gods quest in 
  Ashenvale.
- Wildhunter Cloak reward item from the Ashenvale Hunt quest has been 
  improved.
- Vagash in Dun Morogh now properly shows his Elite status.
- The Encrusted Tail Fin quest item now only drops off the Saltscale 
  Murlocs in Stranglethorn. 
- The Bloodfury Ripper's Remains quest item now only drops off the 
  Bloodfury Ripper in Stonetalon Mountain.
- The Blueleaf Tubers requirement of the Barrens Blueleaf Tuber quest 
  was decreased to 6.
- Quest text for the Elemental War quest is changed.  It no longer 
  implies that a choice of rewards is available. 
- The Summoning Shadra quest level has been increased from 50 to 55, 
  to reflect the level of Shadra. 
- Quest related drop items from A Sample of Slime quest and a Batch of 
  Ooze quest have been reduced in value.


 Druids
- Entangling Roots: Rank 4 moved to level 38.
- New Spell: Gift of the Wild (Level 50) - Longer lasting Mark of the 
  Wild spell that buffs the entire group.  Requires a reagent to cast.  
  (Spell is available via loot drop only.)
- Bear Form: Armor bonus increased from 65% to 180%.
- Dire Bear Form: Armor bonus increased from 125% to 360%.
- Hibernate: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.


 Hunters
- Hunters can no longer sit while under the effects of Feign Death.
- Disengage will cause the Hunter's target to immediately check for a 
  new target.
- Hunters will no longer show mana while they are under the effects of 
  Feign Death.
- Claw: Ranks 3-8 focus costs increased to match ranks 1-2.
- Beasts under the effect of Beast Lore will now display whether they 
  are tameable or not.
- Pets: Bite and Claw tooltips now list the damage that is dealt when 
  the pet is content.  Actual damage is unchanged.
- Scare Beast: Beasts now have an increasing chance to break free of 
  the effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 
  15 seconds.


 Mages
- Portals: Each portal spell now has an individual cooldown.
- Polymorph: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of 
  the effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 
  15 seconds.


 Paladins
- Sense Undead: No longer available via the trainer; quest reward only.


 Priests
- Power Word: Shield: Now usable on party members only.
- New Spell: Prayer of Fortitude (Level 48) - Longer lasting Power 
  Word: Fortitude spell that buffs the entire group. Requires a reagent 
  to cast.  (Spell is available via loot drop only.)
- Mind Control: Can no longer be cast on tapped targets.


 Rogues
- Backstab will automatically target the nearest enemy if no target is 
  selected.
- Distract is now effective against creatures that are already distracted.
- Sap: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Vanish will now break root and slow effects.


 Shaman
- Earthbind Totem: Added a 15-second cooldown.


 Warlocks
- Warlock demons have a wide selection of names based on the demon 
  type. This only affects new demons; existing demons will keep their 
  names.
- Warlocks can no longer kill players in duels.
- Death Coil won't give health until it actually hits the target.
- Death Coil will only give the amount of health that it actually 
  drained from the target.
- Create Soulstone: Reduced the Soul Shard cost from two shards to one 
  shard.
- Curse of Shadow: Increased duration from two minutes to five minutes.
- Curse of the Elements: Increased duration from two minutes to five 
  minutes.
- Fear: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.
- Devour Magic (Felhunter): Fixed a bug where the felhunter would be 
  healed every time the spell was used, in addition to the healing 
  gained from successful dispelling.
- Tainted Blood (Felhunter): The reactive effect no longer causes 
  threat.
- Training costs adjusted.  Total training cost was decreased.
- Enslave Demon: Can no longer be cast on tapped targets.



 Warriors
- Warriors will start swinging after performing a Slam attack.
- New Ability: Pummel (Berserker Stance) (Level 38) - Instant attack 
  that causes damage and interrupts spellcasting for a short duration.
- Shield Bash: No longer usable in Berserker Stance.
- Intercept: Cost reduced from 15 rage to 10 rage, damage reduced 
  accordingly.
- Bloodrage: Now generates 10 rage immediately and 10 rage across the 
  duration.
- Improved Bloodrage: Now reduces the health cost of Bloodrage by 25% 
  (rank 1) and 50% (rank 2).
- Berserker Stance: Now increases critical strike chance by 3% instead 
  of granting 10% melee haste.  Extra damage taken reduced from 20% to 
  10%.


 Mac
- The vertex and pixel shader based graphic options have been 
  reactivated on certain combinations of drivers and GPU hardware. As 
  Apple releases future improvements to drivers we will continue to 
  re-test and re-activate features on a case by case basis.  A more 
  detailed list of which driver/hardware combinations are enabled for 
  shader capabilities, along with any known bugs will be posted on 
  the Tech Support forum.  Further optimization work on the client is 
  ongoing, and we welcome your feedback at wowmacteam123@blizzard.com.
- Added reverb to sound effects when a player is in enclosed spaces.


 User Interface
- The Minimap arrows that point to locations/players/etc. are now 
  easier to see.
- Tooltip information on players and monsters in the game has been 
  expanded.
- Alternative keyboard types (such as Dvorak) will now work correctly.
- Macros that cast spells will show spell feedback (e.g. cooldowns, 
  etc.) on the action bar.
- Lua single line comments now work in script blocks embedded in XML 
  files.
- There is a new user interface to enable and disable add-ons for the 
  current account, available at the character selection screen.
- FontString has a new attribute, "maxLines, which is used to limit 
  the number of lines the FontString will render.
- Any text that goes beyond the extents of a FontString will be 
  truncated and replaced with "..."


 Miscellaneous
- When a player breaks the surface of the water going up (i.e. heading 
  out of the water), the camera will move to the above-water position 
  regardless of whether or not the player is holding down the right 
  mouse button.
- The visual effect for unlearning talents will happen after you accept 
  the dialog instead of immediately.


 Bug Fix
- A bug with bandages has been fixed. Previously, only the lowest rank 
  bandage (Linen Bandage) was working correctly in that it brought up a 
  channeling bar and required you to remain still while bandaging. All 
  of the other bandage types (Heavy Linen through Heavy Runecloth) were 
  working incorrectly, but have been fixed to operate the same way that 
  Linen Bandages do.
- Cenarion Vindicators no longer summon Forces of Nature as quickly.
- Severed Dreamers no longer summon Nightmares as quickly.
- Several elite creatures that were missing their elite tags have been 
  fixed.
- Will of the Forsaken is no longer grayed out on the action bar while 
  you are fleeing.
- The Emerald Dragon Whelp will assist you when summoned.
- Aquatic creatures will no longer eventually teleport to you if you 
  harass them from land.
- Undead players will no longer be invisible when they first log in 
  after watching the intro cinematic.
- Fixed the rotating animations of the crystals in Un'Goro Crater.
- Reginald Windsor's yell can be heard during The Great Masquerade.
- Kodos in the Barrens will no longer stomp incessantly while in combat.
- The Ward of Laze is now summoned at a more appropriate level, instead 
  of level one.
- Some elite creatures in outdoor areas of the world had higher than 
  normal experience modifiers, and were corrected to award the proper 
  amount of experience.
- Rare creatures in many of thehigher level outdoor zones will now
  use theirappropriate combat abilities.
- Autoloot has been fixed to work with skinning.
- Fixed durability display on vendor buyback items.
- Some creatures in the outdoor world had much less armor than 
  intended. This has been corrected.
- A bug causing war stomp to not affect some targets within melee range 
  has been fixed.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.1.2 (2004-12-6)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Removed time zone tabs from realm list for U.S., all servers now appear 
  in one list.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.1.1 (2004-11-17)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Durability
  Item durability costs have been greatly decreased for Superior (blue)
  and Epic (purple) items.  


 Improved Unstuck 
  We've added an auto-unstuck feature that you can use prior to 
  petitioning a GM.  You can use this feature in situations where you 
  are caught in a part of the terrain and cannot get out.  You can find 
  the unstuck option by clicking on the "Help Request" button found 
  on the bottom right hand side of the user interface.


 Spirit Healer
  Using the Spirit Healer now results in a 25% loss in durability for a 
  player's equipped gear and items in inventory, instead of the 
  previous 100% loss.  The length of resurrection sickness suffered 
  from using the Spirit Healer has also been decreased to a maximum of 
  10 minutes.


 Reagents
  Reagent requirements have been removed from the following spells:
  Druid: Mark of the Wild
  Mage: Arcane Intellect
  Priest: Power Word: Fortitude


 General
- The Daze effect has been reworked to have a smaller chance of 
  occurring against players level one to 29.  The chance of a 
  successful Daze effect against players 30 and above remains the same.

 Talents 
- The Improved Renew talent has been reduced in effectiveness per rank.
- The effect chance of Seal of Command has been reduced slightly.
- Redoubt now lasts either 10 seconds or five blocks, whichever comes 
  first.  
- The effect of Improved Moonfire has been reduced per rank.


 Druid
- Bear Form has been improved to hold aggro more effectively.
- Growl: removed rage cost and global cooldown.
- Cower: increased the effect, added a cooldown.


 Paladin
- Judgment: Moved to level 4.
- Divine Protection: Moved to level 6.
- Purify: Moved to level 8.
- Seal of the Crusader: Now introduced at level 6.


 Rogue
- Feint: increased the effect, added a cooldown.


 Shaman
- New Spell: Reincarnation (Level 30). Reincarnation is a passive 
  ability that will give you to option of letting you resurrect 
  yourself once every half hour upon death.


 Warlock
- Inferno: Now dismisses your pet before casting to allow the Infernal 
  to start Enslaved.  Useable outdoors only.


 Warrior
- Defensive Stance has been improved to hold aggro more effectively.
- Taunt: removed rage cost and global cooldown.


 Bug Fixes
- Night Elf characters in Wisp form will now have correct collision 
  detection.
- Damage modifiers will now be calculated before armor points are 
  considered, instead of after.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch (2004-11-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Racial Traits
  Racial traits are now available for all races.  Each race receives at 
  least 4 traits (several passive and at least one active trait per 
  race).  Undead racial traits have changed to be more consistent with 
  the new traits and Undead players are now considered Humanoid targets 
  rather than Undead targets.  The following is a full list of traits:

 Dwarf      
  Stoneform: Activate to gain immunity to poison, disease, and bleed 
  Gun Specialization: Increase Gun Skill
  Frost Resistance: Increase Cold Resistance
  Treasure Finding:  Activate to see treasure chests on mini map - 
  lasts until canceled - no cooldown

 Gnome      
  Escape Artist: Activate to break out of a Root or Snare effect 
  Expansive Mind: Increase Intelligence
  Arcane Resistance: Increase Arcane Resistance
  Engineering Specialist: Increase skill bonus to Engineering

 Human      
  Perception: Activate to increase stealth detection radius 
  The Human Spirit: Increase Spirit 
  Diplomacy: Bonus to faction point gain
  Sword Specialization: Increase Sword skill

 Night Elf     
  Shadowmeld: Activate while immobile and out of combat to enter 
  stealth mode
  Quickness: Dodge chance increased
  Wisp Spirit: Become a wisp when dead with movement speed increase 
  Nature Resistance: Increase Nature Resistance

 Orc     
  Blood Fury: Activate to increase Strength
  Hardiness: Increase resistance to stun & knockout effects
  Command: Pet melee damage increased
  Axe Specialization: Increase to Axe skill

 Tauren     
  War Stomp: Activate to stun opponents
  Endurance: Max Health increased 
  Cultivation: Increase skill bonus to Herbalism
  Nature Resistance: Increase Nature Resistance

 Troll      
  Berserking: Activate when "Wounded" to increase melee & 
  spellcasting speed 
  Regeneration: Increase health regen bonus
  Beast Slaying: Increase damage bonus to Beasts
  Throwing Weapon Specialization: Increase Throwing Weapon skill.

 Undead     
  Will of the Forsaken: Activate to become immune to fear, sleep, 
  and charm effects 
  Cannibalize: Increase health regeneration while consuming a corpse 
  Underwater Breathing: Underwater breath increased 
  Shadow Resistance:  Increase Shadow Resistance


 New Raid Encounters
  Rumors of Onyxia, an enormous black dragon, have been heard through
  out Azeroth. Be sure to bring many brave warriors for she wont
  take kindly to intruders in her lair. Both factions will need to
  complete unique, and challenging quests to gain access to the
  Onyxia encounter.  **During the beta testing there will be a 
  temporary placeholder vendor who sells keys to Onyxias lair for 
  testing purposes. 

  Discovered in the heart of Blackrock Mountain beyond the Depths, 
  lies the Molten Core.  Within the Molten Core lives a multitude of 
  ancient and powerful evil.  Adventurers be ware, for the dangers found 
  within the Molten Core are many and takes many forms.

  **Raid loot is being worked on and temporary loot has been placed in 
  raid encounters 


 New Kodo mounts!
  There is but one creature in all of Kalimdor that possesses the 
  strength and stamina to bear a tauren rider into battle: the 
  majestic kodo beast. Swifter and slightly smaller than their 
  wild cousins, kodo mounts nevertheless demonstrate the same 
  resilience and fearlessness found in their untamed brethren, traits 
  that serve them well when bearing their equally resolute riders. It 
  is said that only the most virtuous of tauren can win the affection 
  of a kodo war mount, for these mighty beasts only serve those that 
  approach them with honor and respect in 
  their hearts.

  Tauren players will no longer have the Plainsrunning ability, due 
  to the availability of Kodo mounts!  Tauren players can purchase the 
  Kodo mount at Bloodhoof village.

  **Currently there is an active bug that prevents players from 
  purchasing mounts from different races regarding of reputation, this 
  bug will be addressed in the next patch.


 General
- Higher level dungeon monsters (level 30+) have had their experience 
  values increased.
- Experience needed to gain levels from level 30+ has been increased 
  (to compensate for the dungeon monster change).
- On death, all eqipped items will lose 10% durability.
- Durability loss through fighting has been decreased (mainly to 
  accommodate the new penalty for dying)
- The penalty for using a Spirit Healer has been changed - there is no 
  longer any experience loss, instead all items (equipped and 
  inventory) will take 100% durability loss and the character will gain 
  resurrection sickness for a duration that scale according to level.
- Spells that activate (proc) on kill will work on all players, but only 
  monsters that would give experience points.
- All spears are now polearms.
- Polearm proficiency can now be learned by Hunters, Paladins, 
  Warriors.
- Spear proficiency has been removed.
- Minimum range on abilities now account for size of target and 
  attacker.
- Armor can't be swapped out while in combat.  Other equipment 
  such as weapons and accessories can still be swapped out.
- Shift-click item info linking has been added to the auction 
  interface.
- You now get a 10% discount at high reputation for buying items, 
  item repair, training costs, and taxi flights.
- Line of sight calculation takes into account creature size.
- Creatures should be more adept at chasing players.
- Spawn animations for game objects are now visible.
- Skills will not increase from use while dueling or engaged in 
  PvP.
- Texture linear filtering is turned on for the user interface.
- Escort NPCs will assist players more often.
- Escort NPCs and guards will no longer follow enemy players 
  around.
- NPCs which are performing work emotes will pause them and turn to
  you when you interact with them.
- The Reanimated Corpse actually falls down now when it plays dead.
- New graveyards have been added to many zones.
- Players will not be able to train and purchase non-race specific 
  mounts.  In the next patch, we plan to implement a system in which 
  players can obtain mounts from other races once they have reached a 
  certain level of reputation with that race.


 Quests
- Onyxia Key Quests for both the Horde and Alliance are in and 
  fully functional.
- Eastern and Western Plaguelands have dozens of new quests.
- Tirion Fordring's questline is now complete.
- New PvP, Raid, and PvP Raid quests are live.
- Quests for Molten Core have been added.
- The completion of a quest may now result in a reputation 
  adjustment of a faction or a group of factions.
- More quests added to Desolace, including several Horde 
  specific quests.
- Horde quests added to Ashenvale, ranging from levels 19-30.
- Hemet Nesingwary and his companions now like Horde players in 
  addition to Alliance players.
- More quests added to Stonetalon.
- More quests added to Blackfathom Deeps.  Blackfathom has been 
  moved to Ashenvale and now has Horde quests.


 PvP
- Mind Control and Hunter's Mark flag you for PvP when used on 
  enemy players.
- Healing and buffing NPCs will not flag you for PvP unless those 
  NPCs are in combat.
- NPCs no longer tap creatures they are fighting.


 Talents
- Paladin talents are now available.
- Hunter talents are now available.


 Auctions
- The current high-bidder's name no longer displays in the auction 
  interface.
- Each time a bid is made on an item, a small amount of time is 
  added to the remaining auction duration.
- Items you are the high bidder on will be indicated as such in the 
  interface.


 Professions
- Leatherworking is now complete, you can make up to 300 
  leatherworking skill items.
- Enchanting is now complete, you can perform enchantments that 
  require up to 300 enchanting skill.
- Engineering is now complete, there are engineering recipes that 
  require up to 300 engineering skill.
- Epic player crafted items that require raiding are now available.
- Skeleton Keys added to blacksmithing.  Smiths can now open locks 
  (though the keys are consumed)
- Expert and above skill tiers for secondary skills are no longer 
  available on trainers, you need to find the books to teach you them.  
  Expert level is on a vendor somewhere in the world, artisan level 
  requires a quest to be completed.
- Elixirs no longer stack with player spells that improve the same 
  attribute
- Enchanting recipes generally require more reagents for 200-250 
  skill items
- Limited Invulnerability Potion Re-added to Alchemy, but at a higher 
  level than it was previously.
- Leatherworking recipes added to let light leather be turned into 
  medium leather, medium leather into heavy and so on.   
- Light leather requirements for some 15-20th leather level items 
  reduced to allow for faster skillup in that range.
- Leatherworking Scorpid Recipes now require 2x the scorpid scales, 
  but scorpids now drop the scales 4x as frequently.
- Light leather now only takes 3 scraps to make instead of 4.
- Starting Leatherworking recipe items improved.
- Medium and Heavy leather now sells for less to vendors.
- Pick pocketing now has a chance of getting you a locked Junkbox, 
  which is a locked item that generally has money in it.
- Ironweb Spider Silk now drops more often and some Tailoring 
  Recipes require less.
- The ingredients required to make some gnomish engineering items 
  were changed.
- Elixirs effects reduced somewhat for the higher level elixirs.
- Dark Iron Armor stats have been changed.
- Living Essence and Essence of Undeath drops decreased.
- Silk and Mageweave cloth now sell for less to vendors.
- All remaining profession trainers who train a single recipe 
  have been turned into vendors.
- Catseye Ultra Goggles and Catseye Elixir reduced in effectiveness.
- Requirements to make blacksmithing recipes annihilator and 
  invulnerable mail increased.
- Artisan Level Fishing, Cooking, and First Aid quests are in the 
  game. Trainers will no longer train artisan level in the 
  aforementioned professions. Players must complete quests to gain 
  artisan levels.


 Pets
- Pets, summons and guardians are not susceptible to charm.
- Pets should be much better at chasing moving targets.
- Pets and summons will use their combat abilities as often as 
  possible.
- When your pet or demon learns new spells and abilities they will 
  show up on the pet action bar.
- Charmed creatures will no longer use their summon spells while 
  charmed.
- The pet action bar is greyed out while the pet is confused or fleeing
- Imps no longer run around aimlessly if you turn off auto-cast for 
  their firebolt.


 Druid
- Removed facing direction requirement from Entangling Roots, Faerire 
  Fire, Hibernate, and Soothe Animal.
- New Spell: Rebirth (Level 20).
- New Ability: Feline Grace (Level 40).
- Bear Form abilities that target one or more enemies now generate 
  additional threat.
- Enrage: Cooldown increased.
- Growl: Now gives the target enough threat to attack you, cooldown 
  added.
- Hibernate: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Mark of the Wild: Ranks 5, 6, and 7 now require reagents.

 Hunter
- Glimpse of Instincts: Removed.
- Outdoorsmanship skill line renamed Survival.
- Ranged Combat skill line renamed Marksmanship.
- Removed facing requirement from Hunter's Mark and Scare Beast.
- Aspect of the Cheetah: Speed increased.
- Aspect of the Pack: Speed increased.
- Concussive Shot: No longer causes additional threat, duration and 
  cooldown slightly increased, mana cost reduced.
- Disengage: Effect boosted, cooldown added.
- Hunter's Mark: Duration increased, dispels itself if the Hunter dies.
- Mongoose Bite: Damage increased, mana cost increased.
- Scare Beast: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Wing Clip: Slow effect now scales with level.
- Feign Death: Duration increased.
- New Spell: Track Beasts (Level 1).
- New Spell: Track Humanoids (Level 10).
- New Spell: Track Undead (Level 18).
- New Spell: Track Hidden (Level 24).
- New Spell: Track Elementals (Level 26).
- New Spell: Track Demons (Level 32).
- New Spell: Track Giants (Level 40).
- New Spell: Track Dragonkin (Level 50).
- New Spell: Distracting Shot (Level 12).
- New Spell: Aspect of the Wild (Level 46).

 Mage
- Blink should work much more reliably and will not stop your movement.
- Removed facing requirement from Counterspell, Detect Magic, and 
  Polymorph.
- Polymorph: Now dismounts the enemy target, increased the chance of 
  breaking early.
- Blizzard: Deals its damage in more frequent intervals.
- Arcane Intellect: Ranks 4 and 5 now require reagents.
- Teleport: Now requires a reagent.
- Portal: Now requires a reagent.
- Slow Fall: Now requires a reagent.

 Paladin
- Retribution Aura: Moved to level 16.
- Judgement: Moved to level 50, renamed Holy Wrath.
- Removed facing requirement from Hammer of Justice and Turn Undead.
- Cleanse: Moved to level 42, mana cost increased.
- Holy Light: Causes less threat, heal effect and mana cost increased.
- Purify: Mana cost increased.
- Turn Undead: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Holy Strike: Removed.
- Crusader Strike: Removed.
- Seal of Reckoning: Removed.
- Healing Aura: Removed.
- Dominance Aura: Removed.
- Wisdom Aura: Removed.
- Redemption: Removed.
- Resurrection: renamed Redemption, no longer useable in combat.
- **All Seals renamed Blessings.  Several new spells have been added, 
  which now use the naming convention "Seal".
- New Spell: Seal of the Crusader (Level 12).
- New Spell: Seal of Justice (Level 22).
- New Spell: Seal of Light (Level 30).
- New Spell: Seal of Wisdom (Level 38).
- New Spell: Flash of Light (Level 20).
- New Spell: Judgement (Level 10).
- New Spell: Blessing of Might (Level 8).
- New Spell: Blessing of Wisdom (Level 14).
- New Spell: Blessing of Light (Level 40).
- New Spell: Concentration Aura (Level 22).
- New Spell: Divine Intervention (Level 30).
- Resistance Aura: Split up into 3 new spells...Shadow Resistance Aura 
  (Level 28), Frost Resistance Aura (Level 32), and Fire Resistance Aura 
  (Level 36).
- Seal of Fury has changed significantly.
- Seal of Righteousness has changed significantly.
- Blessing of Sacrifice: Moved to level 46, now transfers a flat amount 
  of damage per hit, and has replacements.
- Blessing of Salvation: Moved to level 26, duration increased, cooldown 
  removed, effect reduced.
- Blessing of Freedom: Moved to level 18.
- Blessing of Protection: Moved to level 10.

 Priest
- Resurrect spells now use the same timer as when reclaiming your corpse.  
  When a player is resurrected, they will have to wait for a set amount 
  before they can click the accept button.
- Resurrect now teleports you to the location at which the spell was cast, 
  not to the caster's present location.
- Removed facing requirement from Mind Control, Mind Soothe, Shackle 
  Undead and Shadow Word: Pain.
- Resurrection: No longer useable in combat.
- Levitate will now be cancelled if any damage is taken, now requires a 
  reagent.
- Power Word: Fortitude: Ranks 4, 5, and 6 now require reagents.
- Mind Control: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Shackle Undead: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- New Spell: Desperate Prayer (Level 10).  (Dwarf/Human only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Starshards (Level 10).  (Night Elf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Touch of Weakness (Level 10).  (Undead only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Hex of Weakness (Level 10).  (Troll only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Fear Ward (Level 20).  (Dwarf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Feedback (Level 20).  (Human only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Elune's Grace (Level 20).  (Night Elf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Devouring Plague (Level 20).  (Undead only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Shadowguard (Level 20).  (Troll only.)  (Quest)

 Rogue
- Vanish will now cancel spells in progress and missiles in flight if 
  they are being cast at the vanished player.
- Poisons: Should now be resistable.
- Removed facing requirement from Blind and Pick Pocket.
- Lockpicking: No longer auto-ranks.  It must be used to improve.
- Sap: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- New Poison: Wound Poison (Level 32).
- New Ability: Safe Fall (Level 40).

 Shaman
- Removed facing requirement from Purge.
- Rebirth: Renamed Ancestral Spirit, no longer useable in combat.
- Water Walking: Now cancelled if any damage is taken, requires reagent.
- Water Breathing: Now requires a reagent.
- Earth Shock: Now causes additional threat.
- Healing Stream Totem: Heals in smaller, more frequent intervals 
  (roughly the same total over time).
- Mana Spring Totem: Restores mana in smaller, more frequent intervals 
  (roughly the same total over time).
- Rockbiter Weapon: Now also makes your melee attacks cause additional 
  threat.
- Windfury Weapon: Much more responsive.
- Windfury Totem: Much more responsive.

 Warlock
- Only party members can participate in rituals.
- Voidwalkers will wait for enemies in the area before casting Suffering.
- Target of summoning ritual must already be in the same instance if 
  caster is in an instance.
- Summoning gives a confirmation dialog to person being summoned.
- Ghosts can no longer be summoned.
- A bug has been fixed in the calculation of total mana for Warlock pets.
- Lash of Pain (Succubus): no longer requires the succubus to be behind 
  the target.
- Seduction (Succubus): Mana cost reduced, increased the chance of 
  breaking early.
- Soulstones: Now soulbound when created, are consumed to store the 
  target's soul.  When that target dies, he may resurrect himself any 
  time up until release.  Cooldown added.
- Removed facing requirement from Banish, Corruption, all Curses, 
  Enslave Demon, and Fear.
- Demon spells are now available as Grimoires from the Demon Trainers in 
  the world.  Purchase the Grimoire and read it while the appropriate 
  demon is summoned to teach it the spell.
- Enslave Demon once again requires a soul shard, increased the chance 
  of breaking early if cast repeatedly on the same target.
- Howl of Terror: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Fear: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Rain of Fire: Duration, mana cost, and damage slightly reduced, deals 
  its damage in more frequent intervals.
- New Spell (Imp): Phase Shift (Level 12).
- New Spell: Summon Felhunter (Level 30).  (Quest)
- New Spell: Inferno (Level 50).  (Monster Loot)
- New Spell: Curse of Doom (Level 60).
- New Spell: Ritual of Doom (Level 60).  (Monster Loot)

 Warrior
- Inner Rage: Removed.
- Pummel: Removed.
- Heroic Strike: Now available in all Stances, damage increased on some 
  ranks, decreased on others.
- Sunder Armor: Now available in all Stances.
- Shield Bash: Now available in all Stances.
- Hamstring: Now available in Battle and Berserker Stance.
- Rend: Now available in Battle and Defensive Stance, damage slightly 
  increased on some ranks.
- Recklessness: Moved to level 50, moved to Berserker Stance, can be
  cancelled early, now causes the Warrior to take extra damage instead 
  of decreasing armor.
- Bloodrage: Available in all Stances, cooldown increased.
- Cleave: Moved to level 20, available in all Stances, damage reduced.
- Mocking Blow: Moved to level 16, damage increased, replaced more 
  frequently.
- Shield Wall: Moved to level 28.
- Slam: Available in all Stances, damage reduced, casting is pushed back 
  when hit.
- Thunder Clap: Damage increased.
- Defensive Stance: Now reduces damage taken and damage caused instead 
  of increasing Defense skill.
- Intimidating Shout: Moved to level 22, no longer causes the targeted 
  enemy to run in fear, but will cower in fear.  The cowering effect is 
  broken by damage.
- Warrior abilities that target one or more enemies now generate 
  additional threat.
- Taunt: Now gives the target just enough threat to attack you.  
  Cooldown added.
- Berserker Rage: Moved to level 32.
- New Ability: Retaliation (Level 20).
- New Ability: Execute (Level 24).
- New Ability: Intercept (Level 30).
- New Ability: Whirlwind (Level 40).


 Mac
  Shader based options are still disabled on the Mac client and are 
  awaiting release of driver bug fixes from Apple and GPU vendors. We will 
  release a patch to re-enable shader based graphic effects in Mac WoW when 
  that becomes feasible


Bug Fixes
- Monsters with extra dodge chances have been corrected.
- Abilities that activate off critical hits work off critical hits from 
  abilities as well (Blood Craze, Enrage).
- Blessing of salvation correctly affects healing over time spells.
- If you tame the leader of a herd of Kodo with the Kodo Kombobulator the 
  whole herd won't follow you.
- If you close the disenchanting loot pane without looting the item, the 
  Dust or Essence or Shard is automatically looted for you.  (You no 
  longer destroy the enchanted item if you close the loot pane with the 
  results of the disenchantment)


 Miscellaneous
- Vocal emotes now display a normal emote to the chat window, instead of 
  the "Player says..." text.  Voice Emote Audio is unchanged.   
- There is now a checkbox to turn off audio emotes.
- Many boxes and crates ready to be looted have been added around the 
  world.
- Many new rare vendors selling weapons/armor/potions have been added 
  around the world.
